Item 1. Business – Environmental and Regulatory Matters" of this report. 
While we have planned for future capital and operating expenditures to maintain compliance with environmental laws, our costs of compliance may exceed our estimates. We may also be subject to environmental claims for personal injury, liabilities arising from past, present or future releases of, or exposures to, hazardous substances, or cost recovery actions for remediation of facilities in the future based on our past, present or future business activities.
Further, pursuant to applicable environmental and safety laws and regulations, we are required to obtain and maintain certain governmental permits and approvals, including EPA registrations under FIFRA for some of our products. We maintain EPA 
13
Table of Contents
FIFRA registrations for ethylene oxide as a medical device sterilant and spice fumigant and for propylene oxide as a fumigant of nuts and spices. These products are progressing through a multi-year FIFRA re-registration review process. Recent draft documents indicate that the EPA intends to continue the registrations for both ethylene oxide and propylene oxide with certain additional mitigation measures. The EPA may re-examine the registrations in the future in accordance with the provisions of FIFRA. Any future determination by the EPA to discontinue permitted use of ethylene oxide or propylene oxide would have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.
Commercial supply of pharmaceutical products that we may develop, subject to cGMP manufacturing regulations, would be performed by third-party cGMP manufacturers. Modifications, enhancements or changes in third-party manufacturing facilities or procedures of our pharmaceutical products are, in many circumstances, subject to FDA approval, which may be subject to a lengthy application process or which we may be unable to obtain. Any third-party cGMP manufacturers that we may use are periodically subject to inspection by the FDA and other governmental agencies, and operations at these facilities could be interrupted or halted if the results of these inspections are unsatisfactory. Failure to comply with the FDA or other governmental regulations can result in fines, unanticipated compliance expenditures, recall or seizure of products, total or partial suspension of production, enforcement actions, injunctions and criminal prosecution, which could have a material adverse effect on our business and financial results.
Permits and approvals may be subject to revocation, modification or denial under certain circumstances. Our operations or activities could result in administrative or private actions, revocation of required permits or licenses, or fines, penalties or damages, which could have an adverse effect on us. In addition, we cannot predict the extent to which any legislation or regulation may affect the market for our products or our cost of doing business.
Concerns about ethylene oxide emissions have resulted in certain state actions against certain of our customers that are currently impacting these customers’ ability to use the ethylene oxide process to sterilize medical devices, which may, in turn, affect sales to these customers.
There is increased focus on the use and emissions of ethylene oxide by the EPA and state environmental agencies. Certain of the Company’s customers who use ethylene oxide in the U.S. for the sterilization of medical devices have received ongoing state and local scrutiny for environmental concerns at their facilities. This scrutiny is associated with the IRIS Assessment described in “Item 1. Business – Environmental and Regulatory Matters” of this report, which deemed exposure to ethylene oxide as unsafe at levels far below those found in the environment. The EPA began using the IRIS Assessment in 2020 to regulate change to existing permissible emissions limits at facilities that produce or use ethylene oxide in non-sterilization processes, and subsequently proposed rules for ethylene oxide sterilization facilities as well. These rules have yet to be finalized. Additionally, some state and local regulators have drawn their own conclusions from the IRIS Assessment, which has resulted in certain state actions against our customers that continue to impact these customers’ ability to use the ethylene oxide process to sterilize medical devices. Due to these regulatory actions, many customers have taken or are expected to take some voluntary downtime to install new abatement equipment. The installation of the new abatement equipment is being done ahead of what is expected to be changes in the EPA regulations. The Company remains confident that the sterilization industry will be able to install abatement equipment to satisfy the new forthcoming EPA requirements. The Company is working with various stakeholders to ensure the EPA considers all available assessments to appropriately quantify ethylene oxide's risks. While the Company believes that EPA will, as it has in the past, ultimately regulate to lower emissions levels based on a combined consideration of the various assessments available and that industry will then adopt practices and procedures to ensure compliance with these new regulations, there is no assurance that this will be the case. Further, additional regulatory requirements associated with the use and emission of ethylene oxide may be imposed in the future, both within and outside of the U.S. Such increased regulation could require our customers and/or the Company to temporarily suspend operations to install additional fugitive emissions control technology, limit the use of ethylene oxide or take other actions which could impact our business, financial condition or results of operations.
 
Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments
None.
14
Table of Contents
Item 1C. Cybersecurity
Cybersecurity is a critical part of our enterprise risk management. The Board, through its Audit Committee, oversees enterprise risk management, including cybersecurity. To more effectively address cybersecurity threats, we have numerous security layers within our least privilege network approach which is managed by our Information Technology Department. Our cybersecurity programs align with numerous standards and continues to grow and develop as new technologies emerge. Further, we have regular user awareness testing and trainings in place which helps keep all end users and executive leadership up-to-date on the most current threats. The global head of Information Security, possessing credentials in both information technology (“IT”) and cybersecurity, provides regular updates to senior management. Additionally, they provide at least an annual update, or more frequently if necessary, to both the Audit Committee and the full Board regarding the current threat landscape at Balchem, cybersecurity technologies, mitigation strategies, industry trends and best practices that we follow, major cybersecurity incidents (if any), and other areas of importance. The global head of Information Security has responsibility over cybersecurity management globally and reports directly to the Chief Financial Officer. Additional activities to maintain and enhance information security are discussed below.
•
Reliable, Scalable Systems and Infrastructure
Our information security systems, infrastructure, and processes are built on and follow the U.S. National Institute of Standards and Technology ("NIST") framework for information security, which is a set of guidelines, accepted standards, and best practices for mitigating organization cybersecurity risks published by NIST. We continue to make significant investments in industry-leading and advanced technologies as part of our strategy to strengthen our security posture, business continuity capabilities, and ability to protect and safeguard systems and stakeholder data. Our Information Security Program and systems are tested and assessed annually by an independent third party.
•
Automation and Artificial Intelligence
We have implemented automated systems to proactively test attack vectors by emulating inside and outside threats resulting in the validation of our ability to detect and defend against a cyber attack. Artificial intelligence is used as part of early warning systems designed to detect, alert, and respond to potential cyber threats.
•
Training
Recognizing that information security, stakeholder data, and privacy principles involve more than just systems and infrastructure, we provide semi-annual cybersecurity education and training to all users with access to IT systems, devices, or applications. Internal social engineering phishing campaigns are conducted regularly with the goal of building a culture of cybersecurity, as well as raising awareness and reinforcing best practices across the organization.
Third parties also play a role in our cybersecurity. We engage third-party services to conduct evaluations of our security controls, whether through penetration testing, independent audits or consulting on best practices to address new challenges. These evaluations include testing both the design and operational effectiveness of security controls. 
We apply a risk-based approach to mitigate cybersecurity risks associated with our use of third-party service providers and cybersecurity considerations affect the selection and oversight of these third-party service providers. We perform due diligence on third parties that have access to our most critical systems, data or facilities that house such systems or data.
While we have experienced cybersecurity threats in the past in the normal course of business and expect to continue to experience such threats from time to time, to date, none have had a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. Even with the extensive approach we take to cybersecurity, we may not be successful in preventing or mitigating a cybersecurity incident that could have a material adverse effect on us. See Item 1A. “Risk Factors - Operational Risks - Disruptions or breaches of our information systems could adversely affect us” for a discussion of cybersecurity risks.
In the event of a possible cybersecurity incident, we would immediately implement our crisis management plan, which includes the following steps:
(1) Internal reporting and review of the incident or development
(2) Gathering and assessing information
(3) Developing and implementing a communications strategy
(4) Monitoring and evaluating a response
15
Table of Contents
(5) Debrief and recovery
As part of the gathering and assessment of information in step 2, we will consider various factors to make a materiality determination of the incident, including business impact, potential costs, impacted data, scope of the incident, possible litigation or regulatory implications, and reputational damage.