5376—117 7545(o)(1)(H)), as in effect on the date of enactment of this section. ‘‘(f) R EGISTRATION OF SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL PRO- DUCERS.—No credit shall be allowed under this section with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel unless the producer or importer of such fuel— ‘‘(1) is registered with the Secretary under section 4101, and ‘‘(2) provides— ‘‘(A) certification (in such form and manner as the Secretary shall prescribe) from an unrelated party dem- onstrating compliance with— ‘‘(i) any general requirements, supply chain traceability requirements, and information trans- mission requirements established under the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation described in paragraph (1) of subsection (e), or ‘‘(ii) in the case of any methodology established under paragraph (2) of such subsection, requirements similar to the requirements described in clause (i), and ‘‘(B) such other information with respect to such fuel as the Secretary may require for purposes of carrying out this section. ‘‘(g) C OORDINATION WITH CREDIT AGAINST EXCISE TAX.—The amount of the credit determined under this section with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel shall, under rules prescribed by the Secretary, be properly reduced to take into account any benefit provided with respect to such sustainable aviation fuel solely by reason of the application of section 6426 or 6427(e). ‘‘(h) T ERMINATION.—This section shall not apply to any sale or use after December 31, 2024.’’. (b) CREDIT MADE PART OF GENERAL BUSINESS CREDIT.— Section 38(b), as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by striking ‘‘plus’’ at the end of paragraph (33), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (34) and inserting ‘‘, plus’’, and by inserting after paragraph (34) the following new paragraph: ‘‘(35) the sustainable aviation fuel credit determined under section 40B.’’. (c) C OORDINATION WITH BIODIESEL INCENTIVES.— (1) IN GENERAL.—Section 40A(d)(1) is amended by inserting ‘‘or 40B’’ after ‘‘determined under section 40’’. (2) C ONFORMING AMENDMENT .—Section 40A(f) is amended by striking paragraph (4). (d) S USTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL ADDED TO CREDIT FOR ALCOHOL FUEL, B IODIESEL, AND ALTERNATIVE FUEL MIXTURES.— (1) I N GENERAL .—Section 6426 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: ‘‘(k) S USTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL CREDIT.— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this section, the sustain- able aviation fuel credit for the taxable year is, with respect to any sale or use of a qualified mixture, an amount equal to the product of— ‘‘(A) the number of gallons of sustainable aviation fuel in such mixture, multiplied by ‘‘(B) the sum of— === PAGE 118 === H. The scope of verification services is limited to the following transaction types: • For liquid fuels: Production in California, Production for Import, Import, Export, Gain of Inventory, Loss of Inventory, and Not Used for Transportation • For non-liquid fuels: NGV Fueling, Propane Fueling, FCV Fueling for hydrogen produced from book-and-claim biomethane D eferred verification • Fuel pathway holders producing alternative fuels may defer annual verification of their Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports for each production facility up to two years if the quantity of fuel produced at the production facility and reported by any entity does not result in 6,000 or more credits and 6,000 or more deficits generated in the LRT during the prior calendar year pursuant to section 95500(c)(2)(B). • Fuel reporting entities only reporting alternative fuel quantities using Lookup table pathways may defer annual verification of their Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports up to two years if they do not generate 6,000 or more credits and 6,000 or more deficits during the prior calendar year. • Any fuel quantity reported under a pathway with biomethane supplied using book-and-claim accounting pursuant to section 95488.8(i)(2) is not eligible for deferred verification pursuant to section 95500(c)(2)(B). Section 40B(f)(2)(A) requires a producer or importer of SAF to provide certification (in the form and manner prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury or her 3 See sections 4.05 and 4.06 of Notice 2023-6 for instructions and an example of how to calculate the applicable supplementary amount for purposes of §§ 40B(b) and 6426(k). === PAGE 4 === 3 delegate (Secretary)) from an unrelated party demonstrating compliance with (i) any general requirements, supply chain traceability requirements, and information transmission requirements established under CORSIA as described in § 40B(e)(1), or (ii) in the case of any similar methodology established under § 40B(e)(2), requirements similar to the requirements described in § 40B(f)(2)(A)(i). Annual Marketable Crude Oil Volume (Annual MCON) Report Entities submitting crude oil volume data must obtain the services of a verification body for purposes of conducting verification services, including required site visit(s), for Crude Oil Quarterly and Annual Volumes Reports. a) A nnual MCON Reporting Requirement: F or each refinery, a producer of CARBOB, gasoline, or diesel fuel must submit an annual MCON report including crude oil name, fuel quantity (in gal), and country (or State) of origin for each crude oil supplied to the refinery during the annual compliance period. Section 40B(f)(2)(A) requires a producer or importer of SAF to provide certification (in the form and manner prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury or her delegate (Secretary)) from an unrelated party demonstrating compliance with (i) any general requirements, supply chain traceability requirements, and information transmission requirements established under CORSIA as described in § 40B(e)(1), or (ii) in the case of any similar methodology established under § 40B(e)(2), requirements similar to the sustainability requirements described in § 40B(f)(2)(A)(i). 5376—121 of paragraph (2), the amount of the credit determined under subsection (a) with respect to qualified clean hydrogen described in subsection (b)(2) shall be equal to such amount (determined without regard to this sentence) multiplied by 5. ‘‘(2) R EQUIREMENTS.—A facility meets the requirements of this paragraph if it is one of the following: ‘‘(A) A facility— ‘‘(i) the construction of which begins prior to the date that is 60 days after the Secretary publishes guidance with respect to the requirements of para- graphs (3)(A) and (4), and ‘‘(ii) which meets the requirements of paragraph (3)(A) with respect to alteration or repair of such facility which occurs after such date. ‘‘(B) A facility which satisfies the requirements of para- graphs (3)(A) and (4). ‘‘(3) P REVAILING WAGE REQUIREMENTS.— ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL .—The requirements described in this subparagraph with respect to any qualified clean hydrogen production facility are that the taxpayer shall ensure that any laborers and mechanics employed by the taxpayer or any contractor or subcontractor in— ‘‘(i) the construction of such facility, and ‘‘(ii) with respect to any taxable year, for any por- tion of such taxable year which is within the period described in subsection (a)(2), the alteration or repair of such facility, shall be paid wages at rates not less than the prevailing rates for construction, alteration, or repair of a similar character in the locality in which such facility is located as most recently determined by the Secretary of Labor, in accordance with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, United States Code. Annual Report on Transactions Subject to Verification (QFTR) Fu el reporting entities who have submitted Quarterly Fuel Transactions Report to the LRT that include the following transaction types must obtain verification services of a verification body accredited by CARB for the purposes of conducting verification services, including site visit(s) pursuant to section 95500(c). For purposes of determining an increased credit amount under paragraph (1) for a taxable year, the requirement under clause (ii) of this subparagraph is applied to such taxable year in which the alteration or repair of qualified facility occurs. ‘‘(B) C ORRECTION AND PENALTY RELATED TO FAILURE TO SATISFY WAGE REQUIREMENTS .—Rules similar to the rules of section 45(b)(7)(B) shall apply. ‘‘(4) A PPRENTICESHIP REQUIREMENTS .—Rules similar to the rules of section 45(b)(8) shall apply. ‘‘(5) REGULATIONS AND GUIDANCE .—The Secretary shall issue such regulations or other guidance as the Secretary deter- mines necessary to carry out the purposes of this subsection, including regulations or other guidance which provides for requirements for recordkeeping or information reporting for purposes of administering the requirements of this subsection. ‘‘(f) R EGULATIONS.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall issue regulations or other guidance to carry out the purposes of this section, including regulations or other guidance for determining lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions.’’. (2) C REDIT REDUCED FOR TAX -EXEMPT BONDS .—Section 45V(d), as added by this section, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: === PAGE 122 === H. Advanced credits can only be sold via the Credit Clearance Market, and only retired for the purpose of meeting compliance obligation. (3 ) “Advanced Credit Window” is the six-year period during which advanced credits can be issued and after which base credit issuances will be adjusted to account for advanced credits. ( 4) “ Adverse Validation Statement” and “Adverse Verification Statement” means a statement rendered by a verification body attesting that: (1) the verification body cannot say, with reasonable assurance, that the reported value is free of a material misstatement, or (2) the data submitted contain one or more correctable errors, or (3) both, and thus is not in conformance with the requirement to fix such errors pursuant to section 95501(b)(6). Differences that, in the professional judgment of the verification team, are the result of differing but reasonable methods of truncation or rounding or averaging, where a specific procedure is not prescribed by this subarticle, are not considered errors. (35) “ Credit Generator” means a fuel reporting entity or a project operator that generates LCFS credit in the LCFS program. (36) “ Credits” and “Deficits” mean the units of measure used for determining a regulated entity’s compliance with the average carbon intensity requirements in section 95484. Entities that would like to request eligibility confirmation may email LCFSVerify@arb.ca.gov. a) Q FTR Reporting Requirement: Quarterly Fuel Transactions Report(s) are submitted through the LRT to CARB according to regulatory deadlines and consistent with previous practice; see the Air Resources Board - LCFS User Guide Version 1.2 (ca.gov) (LRT User Guide) for more detail. b) Annual Verification Report Submission Methods: The fuel reporting entities must use the LRT Verification tab to submit the report directly to CARB and the contracted VB. Summary of 2023 LCFS Compliance Reporting Total number of entities actively reporting in 2023 under LCFS program 531 Total number of entities generating deficits during 2023 64 Total number of deficit generating entities that met their 2023 compliance obligation 64 As reported in the Q4 2023 Quarterly Data Summary, cumulatively through 2023, the LCFS program has generated 155.58 million credits and 132.03 million deficits, for a net of about 23.55 million credits banked in the program. Quarterly fuel transactions verification related to LUT pathways using specified source feedstocks When a fuel pathway does not require third-party validation or verification, e.g., Lookup Table pathways including hydrogen (gaseous and liquefied) from central SMR of biomethane, specified source feedstocks must be included in the scope of verification of the Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports. === PAGE 1 === 2023 LCFS Compliance Information and Credit Clearance Market Information LCFS Compliance Reporting for 2023 The Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) achieved 100 percent compliance for the 2023 data year. 95501(b)(4)(E) Exempt from verification Pursuant to section 95500(c)(2)(C), entities reporting fuel transactions as Export, Gain of Inventory, Loss of Inventory, and Not Used for Transportation, which do not result in 6,000 or more credits and 6,000 or more deficits generated in the calendar year are exempt from verification of the Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports if all the following conditions are met: === PAGE 10 === 04/05/2024 2023 Annual Report Guidance 10 | Page • The entity did not report any liquid fuel using the transaction types: Production in California, Production for Import, or Import; and • The entity did not report any transactions for NGV Fueling or Propane Fueling. Section 4 of this notice also provides a safe harbor for certifying the related requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(ii) for purposes of the USDA CSA Pilot Program by using an unrelated party certifier that meets the USDA CSA Pilot Program requirements for Eligible Unrelated Party Certification Bodies (CSA certifier). Section 3 of Notice 2024-6 provides safe harbors for using the EPA’s Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) program to calculate the emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2), and for using RFS guidance to certify the corresponding unrelated party certification requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(ii). Sections 4.04 and 5.01(4) of Notice 2023-6 include CORSIA-based safe harbors for determining the emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(1) and for providing an unrelated party certification for demonstrating compliance with the requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(i). .04 Notice 2024-6. T he fuel reporting entities must use the LRT Verification tab to submit the report directly to CARB and the contracted VB. 7545(o)(1)), as in effect on the date of enactment of this section. ‘‘(B) GREET MODEL.—The term ‘lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions’ shall only include emissions through the point of production (well-to-gate), as determined under the most recent Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Transportation model (commonly referred to as the ‘GREET model’) developed by Argonne National Laboratory, or a successor model (as determined by the Secretary). ‘‘(2) Q UALIFIED CLEAN HYDROGEN.— ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL .—The term ‘qualified clean hydrogen’ means hydrogen which is produced through a process that results in a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions rate of not greater than 4 kilograms of CO2e per kilogram of hydrogen. ‘‘(B) A DDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS .—Such term shall not include any hydrogen unless— ‘‘(i) such hydrogen is produced— ‘‘(I) in the United States (as defined in section 638(1)) or a possession of the United States (as defined in section 638(2)), ‘‘(II) in the ordinary course of a trade or busi- ness of the taxpayer, and ‘‘(III) for sale or use, and ‘‘(ii) the production and sale or use of such hydrogen is verified by an unrelated party. ‘‘(C) P ROVISIONAL EMISSIONS RATE .—In the case of any hydrogen for which a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions rate has not been determined for purposes of this section, a taxpayer producing such hydrogen may file a petition with the Secretary for determination of the lifecycle green- house gas emissions rate with respect to such hydrogen. ‘‘(3) Q UALIFIED CLEAN HYDROGEN PRODUCTION FACILITY .— The term ‘qualified clean hydrogen production facility’ means a facility— ‘‘(A) owned by the taxpayer, ‘‘(B) which produces qualified clean hydrogen, and ‘‘(C) the construction of which begins before January 1, 2033. ‘‘(d) S PECIAL RULES.— ‘‘(1) TREATMENT OF FACILITIES OWNED BY MORE THAN 1 TAXPAYER.—Rules similar to the rules section 45(e)(3) shall apply for purposes of this section. ‘‘(2) COORDINATION WITH CREDIT FOR CARBON OXIDE SEQUES - TRATION.—No credit shall be allowed under this section with respect to any qualified clean hydrogen produced at a facility which includes carbon capture equipment for which a credit is allowed to any taxpayer under section 45Q for the taxable year or any prior taxable year. ‘‘(e) I NCREASED CREDIT AMOUNT FOR QUALIFIED CLEAN HYDROGEN PRODUCTION FACILITIES.— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL .—In the case of any qualified clean hydrogen production facility which satisfies the requirements === PAGE 121 === H. The Clean Fuel Reward is funded exclusively through LCFS proceeds generated by EDUs from electricity fuel. (30) “Compressed Natural Gas (CNG)” means natural gas that has been compressed to a pressure greater than ambient pressure. (31 ) “Conflict of Interest” means a situation in which, because of financial or other activities or relationships with other persons or organizations, a person or body is unable, or potentially unable, to render an impartial validation or verification statement on a potential client’s LCFS data report, or the person or body’s objectivity in performing validation or verification services is, or might be, otherwise compromised. (32) “Contract Description Code” means the alphanumeric code assigned by an exchange to a particular exchange product that differentiates the product from others traded on the exchange. (33) “ Conventional Jet Fuel” means aviation turbine fuel including Commercial and Military Jet Fuel. The Treasury Department and the IRS developed the guidance set forth in sections 3 through 5 of this notice, in consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other agencies, to provide safe harbors for using the EPA’s Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) program to calculate the emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2) and RFS guidance to certify related sustainability requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(ii), and to address other models. Brown grease must be reported under an applicable used cooking oil (UCO) pathway, i.e., reported as “unprocessed UCO“ only if evidence is provided to the verifier or CARB to confirm that it has not been processed prior to receipt by the fuel production facility. (25) “Business Partner” refers to the counterparty in a specific transaction involving the fuel reporting entity. To date, no GREET-based model has been identified as satisfying the applicable requirements.3 Finally , section 6 of this notice announces that the Department of Energy (DOE) is collaborating with other federal agencies to develop a modified version of the GREET model that would satisfy the requirements of § 40B(e)(2) (§ 40B(e)(2) GREET model). Requirements for Validation of Fuel Pathway Applications; and Verification of Annual Fuel Pathway Reports, Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports, Crude Oil Quarterly and Annual Volumes Reports, Project Reports, and Low-Complexity/Low-Energy-Use Refinery Reports. ............................... However, Notice 2023-6 does not provide guidance regarding the calculation of the emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2) or the associated unrelated party certification of sustainability requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(ii). .03 Sections 3 through 6 of this notice. Sections 4.04 and 5.01(4) of Notice 2023-6 in clude CORSIA-based safe harbors for determining the emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(1) and for providing an unrelated party certification of sustainability requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(i). 1492, 1521-22 (2007), requires the Administrator of the EPA to promulgate regulations implementing the statutory requirements of the RFS program, which include requirements related to greenhouse gas emissions reduction thresholds for renewable fuels. 6 (34) “Correctable Errors” means one or more errors that result from a nonconformance with this subarticle and are identified by the verification team as errors that affect data subject to validation or verification as specified in section 95500. Section 3 of this notice provides safe harbors for calculating the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2) and for certifying the related requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A) (sustainability requirements). Credit Clearance Market The LCFS includes a provision for holding a Credit Clearance Market (CCM) that provides additional compliance flexibility to regulated entities who have not met their previous year-end obligation. N otification to CARB is not required for verification deferrals or exemptions, although a courtesy notification with specific report information may accelerate the eligibility assessment. Tier 1 Fuel Pathway Application Requirements and Certification Process. ................................................................................................................. Tier 2 Fuel Pathway Application Requirements and Certification Process. ................................................................................................................. All quarterly MCON reports submitted through the LRT Quarterly Report function will be compiled by the system when a reporting entity creates the annual MCON report for verification. Accreditation Requirements for Verification Bodies, Lead Verifiers, and Verifiers. ................................................................................................... Lookup Table Fuel Pathway Application Requirements and Certification Process. ................................................................................................... Among a number of requirements, under § 40B(d)(1)(D) and (e), SAF must be certified to have a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage of at least 50 percent. In addition to other requirements, under § 40B(d)(1)(D), SAF must be certified to have a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage of at least 50 percent. LIFECYCLE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTION PERCENTAGE UNDER § 40B(e)(2) AND CERTIFICATION OF SUSTAINABILITY REQUIREMENTS UNDER § 40B(f)(2)(A)(ii); Lifecycle Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Percentage and Certification of Sustainability Requirements Related to the Clean Air Act; As all LCFS deficit-generating entities met their 2023 compliance obligation, CARB has determined that a CCM will not occur in 2024. Lifecycle Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction Percentage and Certification of Requirements Related to the Clean Air Act; Fuel Transactions and Compliance Reporting. ........................................ 171 Table 11: Summary Checklist of Quarterly and Annual Reporting Requirements. ... Requirements for Validation and Verification Services. ........................... Conflict of Interest Requirements for Verification Bodies and Verifiers .... In no event shall the applicable supplementary amount determined under this subsection exceed $0.50. ‘‘(c) Q UALIFIED MIXTURE.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘qualified mixture’ means a mixture of sustainable aviation fuel and kerosene if— ‘‘(1) such mixture is produced by the taxpayer in the United States, ‘‘(2) such mixture is used by the taxpayer (or sold by the taxpayer for use) in an aircraft, ‘‘(3) such sale or use is in the ordinary course of a trade or business of the taxpayer, and ‘‘(4) the transfer of such mixture to the fuel tank of such aircraft occurs in the United States. ‘‘(d) S USTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL.— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL .—For purposes of this section, the term ‘sustainable aviation fuel’ means liquid fuel, the portion of which is not kerosene, which— ‘‘(A) meets the requirements of— ‘‘(i) ASTM International Standard D7566, or ‘‘(ii) the Fischer Tropsch provisions of ASTM Inter- national Standard D1655, Annex A1, ‘‘(B) is not derived from coprocessing an applicable material (or materials derived from an applicable material) with a feedstock which is not biomass, ‘‘(C) is not derived from palm fatty acid distillates or petroleum, and ‘‘(D) has been certified in accordance with subsection (e) as having a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage of at least 50 percent. ‘‘(2) D EFINITIONS.—In this subsection— ‘‘(A) APPLICABLE MATERIAL .—The term ‘applicable material’ means— ‘‘(i) monoglycerides, diglycerides, and triglycerides, ‘‘(ii) free fatty acids, and ‘‘(iii) fatty acid esters. ‘‘(B) B IOMASS.—The term ‘biomass’ has the same meaning given such term in section 45K(c)(3). ‘‘(e) LIFECYCLE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTION PERCENTAGE.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage’ means, with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel, the percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions achieved by such fuel as compared with petroleum-based jet fuel, as defined in accordance with— ‘‘(1) the most recent Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation which has been adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization with the agree- ment of the United States, or ‘‘(2) any similar methodology which satisfies the criteria under section 211(o)(1)(H) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. === PAGE 117 === H. 5376—155 determined under subsection (b) with respect to each eligible component which is— ‘‘(A) produced by the taxpayer, and ‘‘(B) during the taxable year, sold by such taxpayer to an unrelated person. ‘‘(2) P RODUCTION AND SALE MUST BE IN TRADE OR BUSI - NESS.—Any eligible component produced and sold by the tax- payer shall be taken into account only if the production and sale described in paragraph (1) is in a trade or business of the taxpayer. ‘‘(3) U NRELATED PERSON.— ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL .—For purposes of this subsection, a taxpayer shall be treated as selling components to an unre- lated person if such component is sold to such person by a person related to the taxpayer. ‘‘(B) E LECTION.— ‘‘(i) IN GENERAL .—At the election of the taxpayer (in such form and manner as the Secretary may pre- scribe), a sale of components by such taxpayer to a related person shall be deemed to have been made to an unrelated person. ‘‘(ii) R EQUIREMENT.—As a condition of, and prior to, any election described in clause (i), the Secretary may require such information or registration as the Secretary deems necessary for purposes of preventing duplication, fraud, or any improper or excessive amount determined under paragraph (1). ‘‘(b) C REDIT AMOUNT.— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL .—Subject to paragraph (3), the amount determined under this subsection with respect to any eligible component, including any eligible component it incorporates, shall be equal to— ‘‘(A) in the case of a thin film photovoltaic cell or a crystalline photovoltaic cell, an amount equal to the product of— ‘‘(i) 4 cents, multiplied by ‘‘(ii) the capacity of such cell (expressed on a per direct current watt basis), ‘‘(B) in the case of a photovoltaic wafer, $12 per square meter, ‘‘(C) in the case of solar grade polysilicon, $3 per kilo- gram, ‘‘(D) in the case of a polymeric backsheet, 40 cents per square meter, ‘‘(E) in the case of a solar module, an amount equal to the product of— ‘‘(i) 7 cents, multiplied by ‘‘(ii) the capacity of such module (expressed on a per direct current watt basis), ‘‘(F) in the case of a wind energy component— ‘‘(i) if such component is a related offshore wind vessel, an amount equal to 10 percent of the sales price of such vessel, and ‘‘(ii) if such component is not described in clause (i), an amount equal to the product of— === PAGE 156 === H. 5376—158 kilowatts (expressed on a per alternating current watt basis). ‘‘(C) COMMERCIAL INVERTER .—The term ‘commercial inverter’ means an inverter which— ‘‘(i) is suitable for commercial or utility-scale applications, ‘‘(ii) has a rated output of 208, 480, 600, or 800 volt three-phase power, and ‘‘(iii) has a capacity which is not less than 20 kilowatts and not greater than 125 kilowatts (expressed on a per alternating current watt basis). ‘‘(D) D ISTRIBUTED WIND INVERTER.— ‘‘(i) IN GENERAL .—The term ‘distributed wind inverter’ means an inverter which— ‘‘(I) is used in a residential or non-residential system which utilizes 1 or more certified distrib- uted wind energy systems, and ‘‘(II) has a rated output of not greater than 150 kilowatts. ‘‘(ii) C ERTIFIED DISTRIBUTED WIND ENERGY SYSTEM.—The term ‘certified distributed wind energy system’ means a wind energy system which is certified by an accredited certification agency to meet Standard 9.1-2009 of the American Wind Energy Association (including any subsequent revisions to or modifications of such Standard which have been approved by the American National Standards Institute). ‘‘(E) M ICROINVERTER.—The term ‘microinverter’ means an inverter which— ‘‘(i) is suitable to connect with one solar module, ‘‘(ii) has a rated output of— ‘‘(I) 120 or 240 volt single-phase power, or ‘‘(II) 208 or 480 volt three-phase power, and ‘‘(iii) has a capacity which is not greater than 650 watts (expressed on a per alternating current watt basis). ‘‘(F) R ESIDENTIAL INVERTER .—The term ‘residential inverter’ means an inverter which— ‘‘(i) is suitable for a residence, ‘‘(ii) has a rated output of 120 or 240 volt single- phase power, and ‘‘(iii) has a capacity which is not greater than 20 kilowatts (expressed on a per alternating current watt basis). ‘‘(G) U TILITY INVERTER .—The term ‘utility inverter’ means an inverter which— ‘‘(i) is suitable for commercial or utility-scale sys- tems, ‘‘(ii) has a rated output of not less than 600 volt three-phase power, and ‘‘(iii) has a capacity which is greater than 125 kilowatts and not greater than 1000 kilowatts (expressed on a per alternating current watt basis) ‘‘(3) S OLAR ENERGY COMPONENT.— ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL .—The term ‘solar energy component’ means any of the following: ‘‘(i) Solar modules. === PAGE 159 === H. 3 (9) “Animal Fat” means the inedible fat that originates from a rendering facility as a product of rendering the by-products from meat processing facilities including animal parts, fat and bone. “Yellow grease” must be reported under an applicable animal fat pathway if evidence is not provided to the verifier or CARB to confirm the quantity that is animal fat and the quantity that is used cooking oil. (10 ) “Application” means the type of vehicle where the fuel is consumed in terms of LDV/MDV for light-duty vehicle/medium-duty vehicle or HDV for heavy-duty vehicle. (11 ) “Aviation Gasoline” means a complex mixture of volatile hydrocarbons, with or without additives, suitably blended to be used in aviation engines. (12) “ Avoided Cost Calculator” means the Excel-based spreadsheet model (May 2018) produced by Energy and Environmental Economics, Inc. (E3) for use in demand-side cost-effectiveness proceedings at the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC), which is incorporated herein by reference, and is available for download at http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/General.aspx?id=5267. (13) “ Battery Electric Vehicle (BEV)” means any vehicle that operates solely by use of a battery or battery pack, or that is powered primarily through the use of an electric battery or battery pack but uses a flywheel or capacitor that stores energy produced by the electric motor or through regenerative braking to assist in vehicle operation. (14) “ Biodiesel” means a fuel as defined in California Code of Regulations, title 4, section 4140(a). (15) “ Biodiesel Blend” means biodiesel blended with CARB diesel. (16) “ Biogas” means the raw gaseous mixture comprised primarily of methane and carbon dioxide and derived from sources, including but not limited to, the anaerobic decomposition of organic matter in a landfill, lagoon, or constructed reactor (digester). 5376—122 ‘‘(3) CREDIT REDUCED FOR TAX -EXEMPT BONDS .—Rules similar to the rule under section 45(b)(3) shall apply for pur- poses of this section.’’. (3) M ODIFICATION OF EXISTING FACILITIES .—Section 45V(d), as added and amended by the preceding provisions of this section, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: ‘‘(4) M ODIFICATION OF EXISTING FACILITIES .—For purposes of subsection (a)(1), in the case of any facility which— ‘‘(A) was originally placed in service before January 1, 2023, and, prior to the modification described in subpara- graph (B), did not produce qualified clean hydrogen, and ‘‘(B) after the date such facility was originally placed in service— ‘‘(i) is modified to produce qualified clean hydrogen, and ‘‘(ii) amounts paid or incurred with respect to such modification are properly chargeable to capital account of the taxpayer, such facility shall be deemed to have been originally placed in service as of the date that the property required to complete the modification described in subparagraph (B) is placed in service.’’. (4) C ONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— (A) Section 38(b), as amended by the preceding provi- sions of this Act, is amended— (i) in paragraph (34), by striking ‘‘plus’’ at the end, (ii) in paragraph (35), by striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘, plus’’, and (iii) by adding at the end the following new para- graph: ‘‘(36) the clean hydrogen production credit determined under section 45V(a).’’. (B) The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new item: ‘‘Sec. Credits and deficits are denominated in units of metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e), and are calculated pursuant to sections 95486.1(a), (c), 95486.2(a)(5) and (b)(5), 95489 and 95490. (37) “Day” means a calendar day unless otherwise specified as a business day. (38) “Deficit Generator” means a fuel reporting entity who generates deficits in the LCFS program. (39) “Diesel Fuel” (also called conventional diesel fuel) has the same meaning as specified in California Code of Regulations, title 13, section 2281(b). (40) “ Direct Current Fast Charging” means charging an electric vehicle at 50 kW and higher using direct current. (41) “Disadvantaged Communities” means communities that are defined by California Health and Safety Code section 39711(a) that are identified based on geographic, socioeconomic, public health, and environmental hazard criteria, and may include, but are not limited to, either of the following: (1) areas disproportionately affected by environmental pollution and other hazards that can lead to negative public health effects, exposure, or environmental degradation or (2) areas with concentrations of people that are of low-income, high unemployment, low levels of homeownership, high rent burden, sensitive populations, or low levels of educational attainment. (42) “Distiller’s Corn Oil” has the same meaning as “Technical Corn Oil.” (43) “Distiller’s Sorghum Oil” has the same meaning as “Technical Sorghum Oil.” === PAGE 11 === Legal Disclaimer: This is an unofficial electronic version of the Low Carbon Fuel Standard Regulation. This definition applies to Adverse Validation Statements for fuel pathway applications and Adverse Verification Statements for Annual Fuel Pathway Reports, Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports, Crude Oil Quarterly and Annual Volumes Reports, Low-Complexity/Low-Energy-Use Refinery Reports, and Project Reports. “Material mis statement” for each type of report is assessed pursuant to sections 95501(b)(9) through (11). ( 5) “AEZ-EF Model” means the Agro-Ecological Zone Emissions Factor model (December 31, 2014), posted at http://www.arb.ca.gov/fuels/lcfs/lcfs_meetings/lcfs_meetings.htm and available for download at http://www.arb.ca.gov/fuels/lcfs/lcfs_meetings/aez-ef_model_v52.xlsm, which is incorporated herein by reference. ( 6) “Aggregated Transaction Indicator” means an identifier for reported transactions that are a result of an aggregation or summing of more than one transaction in the LRT-CBTS. 5 (26) “ Carbon Intensity (CI)” means the quantity of life cycle greenhouse gas emissions, per unit of fuel energy, expressed in grams of carbon dioxide equivalent per megajoule (gCO2e/MJ). (27) “Cargo Handling Equipment” means any off -road, self-propelled vehicle or equipment, other than yard trucks, used at a port or intermodal rail yard to lift or move container, bulk, or liquid cargo carried by ship, train, or another vehicle, or used to perform maintenance and repair activities that are routinely scheduled or that are due to predictable process upsets. Under § 40B(d)(1), the term sustainable aviation fuel === PAGE 4 === 4 means the portion of liquid fuel that is not kerosene that (i) either (A) meets the specifications of “ASTM D7566” (as defined in section 3.01(1)(a) of this notice to mean the ASTM D7566 Annexes), or (B) meets the specifications of ASTM D1655 Annex A1 (as defined in section 3.01(1)(b) of this notice); and (ii) satisfies the requirements of section 3.01(2) through (4) of this notice regarding sustainability. Section 3 of this notice provides a safe harbor for calculating the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2) using the modified version of the Argonne National Laboratory's Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Technologies (R&D GREET) 2 model that satisfies the requirements 1 Unless otherwise specified, all references to “section” or “§” are references to sections of the Internal Revenue Code. If you have any questions regarding this document, please contact Matt Botill, ISD Chief, at (916) 324-0934 or via email Matthew.Botill@arb.ca.gov === PAGE 2 === Program Background The LCFS, a regulation to reduce the carbon intensity of fuels sold in California 20 percent by 2030, is one of the measures adopted by CARB, pursuant to Health and Safety Code Sections 38500-38599 (AB 32) to reduce California’s greenhouse gas emissions. For the purposes of sections 95480 through 95503, the definitions in Health and Safety Code sections 39010 through 39060 shall apply, except as otherwise specified in this section or sections 95482 through 95503: (1) “ Account Administrator” means the person who can establish and activate user accounts for the reporting party organization as well as upload data (but not necessarily “submit” reports) into the LRT-CBTS. These costs are not reimbursable because the proposed amendments neither compel local agencies to provide new governmental functions (i.e., do not require such agencies to provide additional services to the public), nor do they impose requirements that apply only to local agencies or school districts.1 Fuel purchase costs and savings apply to all individuals and entities that own or operate vehicles. A certificate is required under section 6.04(2) of Notice 2023-6 in order to make a claim 1 Unless otherwise specified, all references to “section” or “§” are references to sections of the Internal Revenue Code. === PAGE 2 === 2 with respect to a SAF qualified mixture under § 34(a)(3), 40B, 6426(k), or 6427(e)(1). The purpose of this regulation is to implement a low carbon fuel standard, which will reduce the full fuel-cycle, carbon intensity of the transportation fuel pool used in California, pursuant to the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 (Health & Safety Code [H&S], section 38500 et seq.). Section 3 of this notice also provides a safe harbor for certifying the related requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(ii) for purposes of the 40BSAF-GREET 2024 model by using the California Air Resources Board’s (CARB) Low Carbon Fuel Standard program (LCFS) accredited verifiers (CARB LCFS verifiers). Section 5 of === PAGE 5 === 4 Notice 2024-6 informs the public that the existing R&D GREET4 model and any other existing versions of GREET (for example, CA-GREET, ICAO-GREET) are methodologies that do not satisfy the requirements to calculate the emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2). Code, § 11346.5, subds. (a)(5)&(6)): The determinations of the Board's Executive Officer concerning the costs or savings incurred by public agencies and private persons and businesses in reasonable compliance with the proposed regulatory action are presented below. This notice refers to a liquid fuel that meets the specifications of ASTM D1655 Annex A1, in which the FT hydrocarbons were derived from biomass that satisfies the requirements of section 3.01(2) through (4) of this notice as a SAF co-processed qualified mixture. DOE worked with the Treasury Department and other Federal agencies to develop the 40BSAF-GREET 2024 model, including specifications for and limitations on taxpayer inputs and background inputs to the model, to satisfy the statutory requirements of § 40B(e)(2); To qualify as sustainable aviation fuel, the liquid fuel must not be derived from co-processing an “applicable material” (or materials derived from an applicable material) with a feedstock that is not biomass (within the meaning of § 45K(c)(3) of the Code). See section 3 of this notice for the requirements of sustainable aviation fuel and qualified mixtures; see section 4 of this notice for calculating the applicable supplementary amount and lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage. A liquid fuel that meets the specifications of one of the ASTM D7566 Annexes or meets the specifications of ASTM D1655 Annex A1, but does not meet the requirements of section 3.01(2) through (4) of this notice is ineligible for the SAF credit. The Credit Clearance Market provision increases market certainty regarding maximum compliance costs, strengthens incentives to invest in and produce low-carbon fuels, and reduces the probability of credit shortfalls and price spikes. This notice refers to a liquid fuel that meets the specifications of one of the ASTM D7566 Annexes and that satisfies the requirements of 3.01(2) through (4) of this notice as a SAF synthetic blending component. FT hydrocarbons, which are derived from biomass that satisfies the requirements of section 3.01(2) through (4) of this notice, are referred to as SAF FT hydrocarbons. (1) ASTM International specifications. To qualify as sustainable aviation fuel, the liquid fuel must have been certified in accordance with § 40B(e) as having a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage of at least 50 percent. DOE and EPA have described the parameters of the model that were included to satisfy the statutory requirements, including to address the issues EPA identified in its December 2023 letter to Treasury. 246 LIST OF TABLES Table 1: LCFS Carbon Intensity Benchmarks for 2011 to 2030 for Gasoline and Fuels Used as a Substitute for Gasoline. ................................................... To qualify as sustainable aviation fuel, the liquid fuel must not be derived from palm fatty acid distillates or petroleum. (4) Lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage. 55 Table 3: LCFS Carbon Intensity Benchmarks for 2019 to 2030 for Fuels Used as a Substitute for Conventional Jet Fuel. ......................................................... Notice 2023-6 also provides guidance related to the registration requirements under § 4101 for persons producing or importing SAF synthetic blending component, a type of SAF. 54 Table 2: LCFS Carbon Intensity Benchmarks for 2011 to 2030 for Diesel Fuel and Fuels Used as a Substitute for Diesel Fuel. ...............................................