Summary of 2023 LCFS Compliance Reporting Total number of entities actively reporting in 2023 under LCFS program 531 Total number of entities generating deficits during 2023 64 Total number of deficit generating entities that met their 2023 compliance obligation 64 As reported in the Q4 2023 Quarterly Data Summary, cumulatively through 2023, the LCFS program has generated 155.58 million credits and 132.03 million deficits, for a net of about 23.55 million credits banked in the program. Credits and deficits are denominated in units of metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e), and are calculated pursuant to sections 95486.1(a), (c), 95486.2(a)(5) and (b)(5), 95489 and 95490. (37) “Day” means a calendar day unless otherwise specified as a business day. (38) “Deficit Generator” means a fuel reporting entity who generates deficits in the LCFS program. (39) “Diesel Fuel” (also called conventional diesel fuel) has the same meaning as specified in California Code of Regulations, title 13, section 2281(b). (40) “ Direct Current Fast Charging” means charging an electric vehicle at 50 kW and higher using direct current. (41) “Disadvantaged Communities” means communities that are defined by California Health and Safety Code section 39711(a) that are identified based on geographic, socioeconomic, public health, and environmental hazard criteria, and may include, but are not limited to, either of the following: (1) areas disproportionately affected by environmental pollution and other hazards that can lead to negative public health effects, exposure, or environmental degradation or (2) areas with concentrations of people that are of low-income, high unemployment, low levels of homeownership, high rent burden, sensitive populations, or low levels of educational attainment. (42) “Distiller’s Corn Oil” has the same meaning as “Technical Corn Oil.” (43) “Distiller’s Sorghum Oil” has the same meaning as “Technical Sorghum Oil.” === PAGE 11 === Legal Disclaimer: This is an unofficial electronic version of the Low Carbon Fuel Standard Regulation. The scope of verification services is limited to the following transaction types: • For liquid fuels: Production in California, Production for Import, Import, Export, Gain of Inventory, Loss of Inventory, and Not Used for Transportation • For non-liquid fuels: NGV Fueling, Propane Fueling, FCV Fueling for hydrogen produced from book-and-claim biomethane D eferred verification • Fuel pathway holders producing alternative fuels may defer annual verification of their Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports for each production facility up to two years if the quantity of fuel produced at the production facility and reported by any entity does not result in 6,000 or more credits and 6,000 or more deficits generated in the LRT during the prior calendar year pursuant to section 95500(c)(2)(B). • Fuel reporting entities only reporting alternative fuel quantities using Lookup table pathways may defer annual verification of their Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports up to two years if they do not generate 6,000 or more credits and 6,000 or more deficits during the prior calendar year. • Any fuel quantity reported under a pathway with biomethane supplied using book-and-claim accounting pursuant to section 95488.8(i)(2) is not eligible for deferred verification pursuant to section 95500(c)(2)(B). Advanced credits can only be sold via the Credit Clearance Market, and only retired for the purpose of meeting compliance obligation. (3 ) “Advanced Credit Window” is the six-year period during which advanced credits can be issued and after which base credit issuances will be adjusted to account for advanced credits. ( 4) “ Adverse Validation Statement” and “Adverse Verification Statement” means a statement rendered by a verification body attesting that: (1) the verification body cannot say, with reasonable assurance, that the reported value is free of a material misstatement, or (2) the data submitted contain one or more correctable errors, or (3) both, and thus is not in conformance with the requirement to fix such errors pursuant to section 95501(b)(6). Credit Clearance Market The LCFS includes a provision for holding a Credit Clearance Market (CCM) that provides additional compliance flexibility to regulated entities who have not met their previous year-end obligation. In no event shall the applicable supplementary amount determined under this subsection exceed $0.50. ‘‘(c) Q UALIFIED MIXTURE.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘qualified mixture’ means a mixture of sustainable aviation fuel and kerosene if— ‘‘(1) such mixture is produced by the taxpayer in the United States, ‘‘(2) such mixture is used by the taxpayer (or sold by the taxpayer for use) in an aircraft, ‘‘(3) such sale or use is in the ordinary course of a trade or business of the taxpayer, and ‘‘(4) the transfer of such mixture to the fuel tank of such aircraft occurs in the United States. ‘‘(d) S USTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL.— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL .—For purposes of this section, the term ‘sustainable aviation fuel’ means liquid fuel, the portion of which is not kerosene, which— ‘‘(A) meets the requirements of— ‘‘(i) ASTM International Standard D7566, or ‘‘(ii) the Fischer Tropsch provisions of ASTM Inter- national Standard D1655, Annex A1, ‘‘(B) is not derived from coprocessing an applicable material (or materials derived from an applicable material) with a feedstock which is not biomass, ‘‘(C) is not derived from palm fatty acid distillates or petroleum, and ‘‘(D) has been certified in accordance with subsection (e) as having a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage of at least 50 percent. ‘‘(2) D EFINITIONS.—In this subsection— ‘‘(A) APPLICABLE MATERIAL .—The term ‘applicable material’ means— ‘‘(i) monoglycerides, diglycerides, and triglycerides, ‘‘(ii) free fatty acids, and ‘‘(iii) fatty acid esters. ‘‘(B) B IOMASS.—The term ‘biomass’ has the same meaning given such term in section 45K(c)(3). ‘‘(e) LIFECYCLE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTION PERCENTAGE.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage’ means, with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel, the percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions achieved by such fuel as compared with petroleum-based jet fuel, as defined in accordance with— ‘‘(1) the most recent Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation which has been adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization with the agree- ment of the United States, or ‘‘(2) any similar methodology which satisfies the criteria under section 211(o)(1)(H) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. === PAGE 117 === H. The Clean Fuel Reward is funded exclusively through LCFS proceeds generated by EDUs from electricity fuel. (30) “Compressed Natural Gas (CNG)” means natural gas that has been compressed to a pressure greater than ambient pressure. (31 ) “Conflict of Interest” means a situation in which, because of financial or other activities or relationships with other persons or organizations, a person or body is unable, or potentially unable, to render an impartial validation or verification statement on a potential client’s LCFS data report, or the person or body’s objectivity in performing validation or verification services is, or might be, otherwise compromised. (32) “Contract Description Code” means the alphanumeric code assigned by an exchange to a particular exchange product that differentiates the product from others traded on the exchange. (33) “ Conventional Jet Fuel” means aviation turbine fuel including Commercial and Military Jet Fuel. 95501(b)(4)(E) Exempt from verification Pursuant to section 95500(c)(2)(C), entities reporting fuel transactions as Export, Gain of Inventory, Loss of Inventory, and Not Used for Transportation, which do not result in 6,000 or more credits and 6,000 or more deficits generated in the calendar year are exempt from verification of the Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports if all the following conditions are met: === PAGE 10 === 04/05/2024 2023 Annual Report Guidance 10 | Page • The entity did not report any liquid fuel using the transaction types: Production in California, Production for Import, or Import; and • The entity did not report any transactions for NGV Fueling or Propane Fueling. Specifically, a SAF synthetic blending component that has generated biomass- based diesel (D-code 4) or advanced biofuel (D-code 5) renewable identification numbers (RINs) under the RFS program that have been validated under a quality 4 Although § 40B(e) requires use of a petroleum-based jet fuel baseline, the Treasury Department and the IRS conclude that it is reasonable to use the RFS program’s diesel fuel baseline for purposes of the safe harbor in section 3.01(2) of this notice because the differences are small compared to the inherent lack of precision with respect to lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions calculations. Differences that, in the professional judgment of the verification team, are the result of differing but reasonable methods of truncation or rounding or averaging, where a specific procedure is not prescribed by this subarticle, are not considered errors. (35) “ Credit Generator” means a fuel reporting entity or a project operator that generates LCFS credit in the LCFS program. (36) “ Credits” and “Deficits” mean the units of measure used for determining a regulated entity’s compliance with the average carbon intensity requirements in section 95484. Account administrators with “signatory authority” may submit Quarterly and Annual Reports; initiate and view all credit transfers and credit transfer activity; access the Credit Balance ledger for the organization; and select/authorize broker(s) to represent them. === PAGE 6 === Legal Disclaimer: This is an unofficial electronic version of the Low Carbon Fuel Standard Regulation. The Credit Clearance Market provision increases market certainty regarding maximum compliance costs, strengthens incentives to invest in and produce low-carbon fuels, and reduces the probability of credit shortfalls and price spikes. === PAGE 1 === 2023 LCFS Compliance Information and Credit Clearance Market Information LCFS Compliance Reporting for 2023 The Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) achieved 100 percent compliance for the 2023 data year. As all LCFS deficit-generating entities met their 2023 compliance obligation, CARB has determined that a CCM will not occur in 2024. The entities reporting high-carbon fuels generated 22,424,118 deficits during this period. Generating and Calculating Credits and Deficits. ....................................... Generating and Calculating Credits and Deficits Using Fuel Pathways. .... For more information see the LCFS Credit Clearance Market webpage. Out of those 531 entities, 64 generated deficits.