5376—117 7545(o)(1)(H)), as in effect on the date of enactment of this section. ‘‘(f) R EGISTRATION OF SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL PRO- DUCERS.—No credit shall be allowed under this section with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel unless the producer or importer of such fuel— ‘‘(1) is registered with the Secretary under section 4101, and ‘‘(2) provides— ‘‘(A) certification (in such form and manner as the Secretary shall prescribe) from an unrelated party dem- onstrating compliance with— ‘‘(i) any general requirements, supply chain traceability requirements, and information trans- mission requirements established under the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation described in paragraph (1) of subsection (e), or ‘‘(ii) in the case of any methodology established under paragraph (2) of such subsection, requirements similar to the requirements described in clause (i), and ‘‘(B) such other information with respect to such fuel as the Secretary may require for purposes of carrying out this section. ‘‘(g) C OORDINATION WITH CREDIT AGAINST EXCISE TAX.—The amount of the credit determined under this section with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel shall, under rules prescribed by the Secretary, be properly reduced to take into account any benefit provided with respect to such sustainable aviation fuel solely by reason of the application of section 6426 or 6427(e). ‘‘(h) T ERMINATION.—This section shall not apply to any sale or use after December 31, 2024.’’. (b) CREDIT MADE PART OF GENERAL BUSINESS CREDIT.— Section 38(b), as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by striking ‘‘plus’’ at the end of paragraph (33), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (34) and inserting ‘‘, plus’’, and by inserting after paragraph (34) the following new paragraph: ‘‘(35) the sustainable aviation fuel credit determined under section 40B.’’. (c) C OORDINATION WITH BIODIESEL INCENTIVES.— (1) IN GENERAL.—Section 40A(d)(1) is amended by inserting ‘‘or 40B’’ after ‘‘determined under section 40’’. (2) C ONFORMING AMENDMENT .—Section 40A(f) is amended by striking paragraph (4). (d) S USTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL ADDED TO CREDIT FOR ALCOHOL FUEL, B IODIESEL, AND ALTERNATIVE FUEL MIXTURES.— (1) I N GENERAL .—Section 6426 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: ‘‘(k) S USTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL CREDIT.— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this section, the sustain- able aviation fuel credit for the taxable year is, with respect to any sale or use of a qualified mixture, an amount equal to the product of— ‘‘(A) the number of gallons of sustainable aviation fuel in such mixture, multiplied by ‘‘(B) the sum of— === PAGE 118 === H. 3 (9) “Animal Fat” means the inedible fat that originates from a rendering facility as a product of rendering the by-products from meat processing facilities including animal parts, fat and bone. “Yellow grease” must be reported under an applicable animal fat pathway if evidence is not provided to the verifier or CARB to confirm the quantity that is animal fat and the quantity that is used cooking oil. (10 ) “Application” means the type of vehicle where the fuel is consumed in terms of LDV/MDV for light-duty vehicle/medium-duty vehicle or HDV for heavy-duty vehicle. (11 ) “Aviation Gasoline” means a complex mixture of volatile hydrocarbons, with or without additives, suitably blended to be used in aviation engines. (12) “ Avoided Cost Calculator” means the Excel-based spreadsheet model (May 2018) produced by Energy and Environmental Economics, Inc. (E3) for use in demand-side cost-effectiveness proceedings at the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC), which is incorporated herein by reference, and is available for download at http://www.cpuc.ca.gov/General.aspx?id=5267. (13) “ Battery Electric Vehicle (BEV)” means any vehicle that operates solely by use of a battery or battery pack, or that is powered primarily through the use of an electric battery or battery pack but uses a flywheel or capacitor that stores energy produced by the electric motor or through regenerative braking to assist in vehicle operation. (14) “ Biodiesel” means a fuel as defined in California Code of Regulations, title 4, section 4140(a). (15) “ Biodiesel Blend” means biodiesel blended with CARB diesel. (16) “ Biogas” means the raw gaseous mixture comprised primarily of methane and carbon dioxide and derived from sources, including but not limited to, the anaerobic decomposition of organic matter in a landfill, lagoon, or constructed reactor (digester). 5376—118 ‘‘(i) $1.25, plus ‘‘(ii) the applicable supplementary amount with respect to such sustainable aviation fuel. ‘‘(2) DEFINITIONS.—Any term used in this subsection which is also used in section 40B shall have the meaning given such term by section 40B. ‘‘(3) R EGISTRATION REQUIREMENT .—For purposes of this subsection, rules similar to the rules of section 40B(f) shall apply.’’. (2) C ONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— (A) Section 6426 is amended— (i) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ‘‘and (e)’’ and inserting ‘‘(e), and (k)’’, and (ii) in subsection (h), by striking ‘‘under section 40 or 40A’’ and inserting ‘‘under section 40, 40A, or 40B’’. (B) Section 6427(e) is amended— (i) in the heading, by striking ‘‘ OR ALTERNATIVE FUEL’’ and inserting, ‘‘ALTERNATIVE FUEL, OR SUSTAIN- ABLE AVIATION FUEL’’, (ii) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘or the sustain- able aviation fuel mixture credit’’ after ‘‘alternative fuel mixture credit’’, and (iii) in paragraph (6)— (I) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end, (II) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘, and’’, and (III) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph: ‘‘(E) any qualified mixture of sustainable aviation fuel (as defined in section 6426(k)(3)) sold or used after December 31, 2024.’’. (C) Section 4101(a)(1) is amended by inserting ‘‘every person producing or importing sustainable aviation fuel (as defined in section 40B),’’ before ‘‘and every person pro- ducing second generation biofuel’’. (D) The table of sections for subpart D of subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 40A the following new item: ‘‘Sec. In no event shall the applicable supplementary amount determined under this subsection exceed $0.50. ‘‘(c) Q UALIFIED MIXTURE.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘qualified mixture’ means a mixture of sustainable aviation fuel and kerosene if— ‘‘(1) such mixture is produced by the taxpayer in the United States, ‘‘(2) such mixture is used by the taxpayer (or sold by the taxpayer for use) in an aircraft, ‘‘(3) such sale or use is in the ordinary course of a trade or business of the taxpayer, and ‘‘(4) the transfer of such mixture to the fuel tank of such aircraft occurs in the United States. ‘‘(d) S USTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL.— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL .—For purposes of this section, the term ‘sustainable aviation fuel’ means liquid fuel, the portion of which is not kerosene, which— ‘‘(A) meets the requirements of— ‘‘(i) ASTM International Standard D7566, or ‘‘(ii) the Fischer Tropsch provisions of ASTM Inter- national Standard D1655, Annex A1, ‘‘(B) is not derived from coprocessing an applicable material (or materials derived from an applicable material) with a feedstock which is not biomass, ‘‘(C) is not derived from palm fatty acid distillates or petroleum, and ‘‘(D) has been certified in accordance with subsection (e) as having a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage of at least 50 percent. ‘‘(2) D EFINITIONS.—In this subsection— ‘‘(A) APPLICABLE MATERIAL .—The term ‘applicable material’ means— ‘‘(i) monoglycerides, diglycerides, and triglycerides, ‘‘(ii) free fatty acids, and ‘‘(iii) fatty acid esters. ‘‘(B) B IOMASS.—The term ‘biomass’ has the same meaning given such term in section 45K(c)(3). ‘‘(e) LIFECYCLE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTION PERCENTAGE.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage’ means, with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel, the percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions achieved by such fuel as compared with petroleum-based jet fuel, as defined in accordance with— ‘‘(1) the most recent Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation which has been adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization with the agree- ment of the United States, or ‘‘(2) any similar methodology which satisfies the criteria under section 211(o)(1)(H) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. === PAGE 117 === H. SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL CREDIT. ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of section 38, the sustainable aviation fuel credit determined under this section for the taxable year is, with respect to any sale or use of a qualified mixture which occurs during such taxable year, an amount equal to the product of— ‘‘(1) the number of gallons of sustainable aviation fuel in such mixture, multiplied by ‘‘(2) the sum of— ‘‘(A) $1.25, plus === PAGE 116 === H. PURPOSE This notice provides additional guidance and safe harbors regarding the sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) credits under §§ 40B and 6426(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (collectively, SAF credit or SAF credits). Specifically, a SAF synthetic blending component that has generated biomass- based diesel (D-code 4) or advanced biofuel (D-code 5) renewable identification numbers (RINs) under the RFS program that have been validated under a quality 4 Although § 40B(e) requires use of a petroleum-based jet fuel baseline, the Treasury Department and the IRS conclude that it is reasonable to use the RFS program’s diesel fuel baseline for purposes of the safe harbor in section 3.01(2) of this notice because the differences are small compared to the inherent lack of precision with respect to lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions calculations. Liquid fuel produced under section A1.2.2.1 does not qualify for the SAF credit because section A1.2.2.1 defines a pathway for producing a liquid fuel from co- processing an applicable material (or materials derived from an applicable material) with a feedstock that is not biomass (for example, petroleum), which § 40B(d)(1)(B) excludes from the SAF credit. The SAF credit is equal to the product of— (1) the number of gallons of sustainable aviation fuel in a qualified mixture, multiplied by (2) the sum of— (A) $1.25, plus (B) the “applicable supplementary amount” (as calculated under section 4.05 of this notice) with respect to such sustainable aviation fuel. PURPOSE This notice provides guidance on the new sustainable aviation fuel credits under §§ 40B and 6426(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) (collectively referred to as a SAF credit or the SAF credit) and related credit and payment rules under §§ 34(a)(3), 38, 87, and 6427(e)(1). Sustainable aviation fuel may be categorized as either (i) a SAF synthetic blending component or (ii) a co-processed liquid fuel that was produced by co-processing petroleum with synthesized hydrocarbons derived from synthesis gas via the Fischer Tropsch process (FT hydrocarbons ). With respect to any SAF qualified mixture produced under ASTM International (ASTM) D7566, the IRS will accept an emissions reduction percentage of the SAF synthetic blending component for a jet fuel that qualifies as renewable fuel under the RFS program. Such credits are collectively referred to as a “SAF credit” or the “SAF credits.” This notice provides additional guidance with respect to the SAF credits under §§ 40B and 6426(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. The SAF credit is equal to the product of (1) the number of gallons of SAF in a qualified mixture and (2) the sum of (A) $1.25 and (B) the “applicable supplementary amount” with respect to such SAF. Notice 2023-6 also provides guidance related to the registration requirements under § 4101 for persons producing or importing SAF synthetic blending component, a type of SAF. Section 4 of Notice 2024-6 provides an updated Model Certificate for SAF Synthetic Blending Component to be used when submitting a claim for a SAF credit. The scope of verification services is limited to the following transaction types: • For liquid fuels: Production in California, Production for Import, Import, Export, Gain of Inventory, Loss of Inventory, and Not Used for Transportation • For non-liquid fuels: NGV Fueling, Propane Fueling, FCV Fueling for hydrogen produced from book-and-claim biomethane D eferred verification • Fuel pathway holders producing alternative fuels may defer annual verification of their Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports for each production facility up to two years if the quantity of fuel produced at the production facility and reported by any entity does not result in 6,000 or more credits and 6,000 or more deficits generated in the LRT during the prior calendar year pursuant to section 95500(c)(2)(B). • Fuel reporting entities only reporting alternative fuel quantities using Lookup table pathways may defer annual verification of their Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports up to two years if they do not generate 6,000 or more credits and 6,000 or more deficits during the prior calendar year. • Any fuel quantity reported under a pathway with biomethane supplied using book-and-claim accounting pursuant to section 95488.8(i)(2) is not eligible for deferred verification pursuant to section 95500(c)(2)(B). Bio -LNG has equivalent performance characteristics when compared to fossil LNG. (19) “B io-L-CNG” means biomethane which has been compressed, liquefied, re-gasified, and re-compressed into L-CNG, and has performance characteristics at least equivalent to fossil L-CNG. (20 ) “Biomass” means non-fossilized and biodegradable organic material originating from plants, animals, or micro-organisms, including: products, by-products, residues and waste from agriculture, forestry, and related industries; the non-fossilized and biodegradable organic fractions of industrial and municipal wastes; and gases and liquids recovered from the decomposition of non-fossilized and biodegradable organic material. (21) “Biomass-based Diesel” means a biodiesel or a renewable diesel. (22) “ Biomethane” means methane derived from biogas, or synthetic natural gas derived from renewable resources, including the organic portion of municipal solid waste, which has been upgraded to meet standards for injection to a natural gas common carrier pipeline, or for use in natural gas vehicles, natural gas equipment, or production of renewable hydrogen. This definition applies to Adverse Validation Statements for fuel pathway applications and Adverse Verification Statements for Annual Fuel Pathway Reports, Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports, Crude Oil Quarterly and Annual Volumes Reports, Low-Complexity/Low-Energy-Use Refinery Reports, and Project Reports. “Material mis statement” for each type of report is assessed pursuant to sections 95501(b)(9) through (11). ( 5) “AEZ-EF Model” means the Agro-Ecological Zone Emissions Factor model (December 31, 2014), posted at http://www.arb.ca.gov/fuels/lcfs/lcfs_meetings/lcfs_meetings.htm and available for download at http://www.arb.ca.gov/fuels/lcfs/lcfs_meetings/aez-ef_model_v52.xlsm, which is incorporated herein by reference. ( 6) “Aggregated Transaction Indicator” means an identifier for reported transactions that are a result of an aggregation or summing of more than one transaction in the LRT-CBTS. A claimant who qualifies for the SAF credit may either: (1) claim an excise tax credit under § 6426(k), in which case the claimant first claims the SAF credit against its § 4081 excise tax liability for a particular quarter and, to the extent that the credit exceeds the claimant’s § 4081 excise tax liability for that quarter, the claimant may claim either a payment under § 6427(e)(1) or a refundable income tax credit under § 34(a)(3); or (2) claim a nonrefundable § 38 general business income tax credit under § 38(b)(35) and include the amount of the § 40B credit in gross income under § 87. Sustainable aviation fuel credit.’’. (e) A MOUNT OF CREDIT INCLUDED IN GROSS INCOME.—Section 87 is amended by striking ‘‘and’’ in paragraph (1), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting ‘‘, and’’, and by adding at the end the following new paragraph: ‘‘(3) the sustainable aviation fuel credit determined with respect to the taxpayer for the taxable year under section 40B(a).’’. (f) E FFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to fuel sold or used after December 31, 2022. 5376—116 ‘‘(B) the applicable supplementary amount with respect to such sustainable aviation fuel. ‘‘(b) APPLICABLE SUPPLEMENTARY AMOUNT.—For purposes of this section, the term ‘applicable supplementary amount’ means, with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel, an amount equal to $0.01 for each percentage point by which the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage with respect to such fuel exceeds 50 percent. All references to R&D GREET in this notice are referring to the same model, including any subsequent updates, as references to ANL-GREET in Notice 2024-6. === PAGE 3 === 2 § 40B and amended §§ 38(b), 40A, 87, 4101(a), 6426, and 6427(e)(1), to establish the SAF credits, effective for certain fuel mixtures containing SAF sold or used after December 31, 2022, and before January 1, 2025. 1818 (August 16, 2022), commonly known as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, added § 40B and amended §§ 38(b), 40A, 87, 4101(a), 6426, and 6427(e)(1), enacting a sustainable aviation fuel credit, effective for certain fuel mixtures containing sustainable aviation fuel sold or used after === PAGE 2 === 2 December 31, 2022, and prior to January 1, 2025. The term ASTM D7566 Annexes means any of the annexes in ASTM D7566 that provide the specifications for a pathway to create a synthetic blending component that can be blended with ASTM D1655 kerosene (as defined in section 3.02(2)(a) of this notice) to make a qualified mixture. (b) ASTM D1655 Annex A1. Requirements for Validation of Fuel Pathway Applications; and Verification of Annual Fuel Pathway Reports, Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports, Crude Oil Quarterly and Annual Volumes Reports, Project Reports, and Low-Complexity/Low-Energy-Use Refinery Reports. ............................... 1818 (August 16, 2022), commonly known as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, added § 40B and amended §§ 38(b), 40A, 87, 4101(a), 6426, and 6427(e)(1), to establish the SAF credits, effective for certain fuel mixtures containing SAF sold or used after December 31, 2022. The SAF credit is equal to the product of (1) the number of gallons of SAF in a qualified mixture and (2) the sum of (A) $1.25 and (B) the “applicable 2 The “ANL-GREET model” refers to the following lifecycle analysis model: Wang, Michael, et al. (2022). Finally, this notice requests comments from the public related to the SAF credit to assist the Department of the Treasury (Treasury Department) and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in developing additional guidance on the SAF credit in the future. PURPOSE The Department of the Treasury (Treasury Department) and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) provided initial guidance on December 19, 2022, regarding the sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) credits in Notice 2023-6, 2023-2 I.R.B. The Credit Clearance Market provision increases market certainty regarding maximum compliance costs, strengthens incentives to invest in and produce low-carbon fuels, and reduces the probability of credit shortfalls and price spikes. Department of Treasury (December 13, 2023), (EPA Letter), available at https://home.treasury.gov/system/files/136/Final-EPA-letter-to-UST-on-SAF-signed.pdf. === PAGE 3 === 3 supplementary amount” with respect to such SAF. Credit Clearance Market The LCFS includes a provision for holding a Credit Clearance Market (CCM) that provides additional compliance flexibility to regulated entities who have not met their previous year-end obligation. This notice refers to a liquid fuel that meets the specifications of one of the ASTM D7566 Annexes and that satisfies the requirements of 3.01(2) through (4) of this notice as a SAF synthetic blending component. See section 3.01 of Notice 2023-6 for the definition of SAF synthetic blending component, and see Notice 2023-6 generally for definitions of other terms used in this notice and Notice 2024-6. For a claimant to qualify for the SAF credit, §§ 40B(f)(1) and 6426(k)(3) require the producer or importer of the sustainable aviation fuel to be registered with the IRS under § 4101. Notice 2023-6 provides guidance on the SAF credits and related credit and payment rules under §§ 34(a)(3), 38, 87, 6426(k), and 6427(e)(1), and procedures for claiming the SAF credit. Section 4 of this notice describes Appendix A of this notice, which contains a Model Certificate for SAF Synthetic Blending Component and supersedes Appendix B of Notice 2023-6. Sections 40B and 6426(k) allow a SAF credit for the production of a qualified mixture which, broadly speaking, is a mixture of sustainable aviation fuel and kerosene. 7545(o)(1)), as in effect on the date of enactment of this section. ‘‘(B) GREET MODEL.—The term ‘lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions’ shall only include emissions through the point of production (well-to-gate), as determined under the most recent Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Transportation model (commonly referred to as the ‘GREET model’) developed by Argonne National Laboratory, or a successor model (as determined by the Secretary). ‘‘(2) Q UALIFIED CLEAN HYDROGEN.— ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL .—The term ‘qualified clean hydrogen’ means hydrogen which is produced through a process that results in a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions rate of not greater than 4 kilograms of CO2e per kilogram of hydrogen. ‘‘(B) A DDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS .—Such term shall not include any hydrogen unless— ‘‘(i) such hydrogen is produced— ‘‘(I) in the United States (as defined in section 638(1)) or a possession of the United States (as defined in section 638(2)), ‘‘(II) in the ordinary course of a trade or busi- ness of the taxpayer, and ‘‘(III) for sale or use, and ‘‘(ii) the production and sale or use of such hydrogen is verified by an unrelated party. ‘‘(C) P ROVISIONAL EMISSIONS RATE .—In the case of any hydrogen for which a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions rate has not been determined for purposes of this section, a taxpayer producing such hydrogen may file a petition with the Secretary for determination of the lifecycle green- house gas emissions rate with respect to such hydrogen. ‘‘(3) Q UALIFIED CLEAN HYDROGEN PRODUCTION FACILITY .— The term ‘qualified clean hydrogen production facility’ means a facility— ‘‘(A) owned by the taxpayer, ‘‘(B) which produces qualified clean hydrogen, and ‘‘(C) the construction of which begins before January 1, 2033. ‘‘(d) S PECIAL RULES.— ‘‘(1) TREATMENT OF FACILITIES OWNED BY MORE THAN 1 TAXPAYER.—Rules similar to the rules section 45(e)(3) shall apply for purposes of this section. ‘‘(2) COORDINATION WITH CREDIT FOR CARBON OXIDE SEQUES - TRATION.—No credit shall be allowed under this section with respect to any qualified clean hydrogen produced at a facility which includes carbon capture equipment for which a credit is allowed to any taxpayer under section 45Q for the taxable year or any prior taxable year. ‘‘(e) I NCREASED CREDIT AMOUNT FOR QUALIFIED CLEAN HYDROGEN PRODUCTION FACILITIES.— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL .—In the case of any qualified clean hydrogen production facility which satisfies the requirements === PAGE 121 === H. Section 40B(e) defines the term lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage to mean, with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel, the percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions achieved by such fuel as compared with petroleum-based jet fuel, as defined in accordance with (i) the most recent Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) that has been adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) with the agreement of the United States and is set out in Annex 16 - Environmental Protection: Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) (2018), https://elibrary.icao.int/home/product-details/229739, and related documents, or (2) any similar methodology that satisfies the criteria under § 211(o)(1)(H) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. Section 211(o)(1)(H) of the CAA defines the term “lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions” to mean “the aggregate quantity of greenhouse gas emissions (including direct emissions and significant indirect emissions such as significant emissions from land use changes), as determined by the [EPA] Administrator, related to the full fuel lifecycle, including all stages of fuel and feedstock production and distribution, from feedstock generation or extraction through the distribution and delivery and use of the finished fuel to the 4 See footnote 2 of this notice for an explanation of the name change from “ANL-GREET” to “R&D GREET.” === PAGE 6 === 5 ultimate consumer, where the mass values for all greenhouse gases are adjusted to account for their relative global warming potential.” See also 42 U.S.C. Section 211(o)(1)(H) of the CAA defines the term “lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions” to mean “the aggregate quantity of greenhouse gas emissions (including direct emissions and significant indirect emissions such as significant emissions from land use changes), as determined by the [EPA] Administrator, related to the full fuel lifecycle, including all stages of fuel and feedstock production and distribution, from feedstock generation or extraction through the distribution and delivery and use of the finished fuel to the ultimate consumer, where the mass values for all greenhouse gases are adjusted to account for their relative global warming potential.” Section 211(o)(2)(A) of the CAA, as added by § 1501(a)(2) of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, Public Law 109-58, 119 Stat. Advanced credits can only be sold via the Credit Clearance Market, and only retired for the purpose of meeting compliance obligation. (3 ) “Advanced Credit Window” is the six-year period during which advanced credits can be issued and after which base credit issuances will be adjusted to account for advanced credits. ( 4) “ Adverse Validation Statement” and “Adverse Verification Statement” means a statement rendered by a verification body attesting that: (1) the verification body cannot say, with reasonable assurance, that the reported value is free of a material misstatement, or (2) the data submitted contain one or more correctable errors, or (3) both, and thus is not in conformance with the requirement to fix such errors pursuant to section 95501(b)(6). Section 40B(f)(2)(A) requires a producer or importer of SAF to provide certification (in the form and manner prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury or her 3 See sections 4.05 and 4.06 of Notice 2023-6 for instructions and an example of how to calculate the applicable supplementary amount for purposes of §§ 40B(b) and 6426(k). === PAGE 4 === 3 delegate (Secretary)) from an unrelated party demonstrating compliance with (i) any general requirements, supply chain traceability requirements, and information transmission requirements established under CORSIA as described in § 40B(e)(1), or (ii) in the case of any similar methodology established under § 40B(e)(2), requirements similar to the requirements described in § 40B(f)(2)(A)(i). An entry of ‘False’ means that the transaction record results from one fuel transaction reported as a single Transaction Number. ( 7) “Alternative Fuel” means any transportation fuel that is not CaRFG or a diesel fuel, including those fuels specified in section 95482(a)(3) through (a)(13). ( 8) “Alternative Jet Fuel” means a drop-in fuel, made from petroleum or non-petroleum sources, which can be blended and used with conventional petroleum jet fuels without the need to modify aircraft engines and existing fuel distribution infrastructure. === PAGE 7 === Legal Disclaimer: This is an unofficial electronic version of the Low Carbon Fuel Standard Regulation. Section 40B(e) defines the term “lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage” (emissions reduction percentage) to mean, with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel, the percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions achieved by such fuel, as compared with petroleum-based jet fuel, as defined in accordance with (1) the most recent Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) that has been adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) with the agreement of the United States or (2) any similar methodology that satisfies the criteria under § 211(o)(1)(H) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. Section 40B(e) defines the term “lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage” (emissions reduction percentage) to mean, with respect to any SAF, the percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions achieved by such fuel, as compared with petroleum-based jet fuel, as defined in accordance with (1) the most recent Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) that has been adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) with the agreement of the United States or (2) any similar methodology that satisfies the criteria under § 211(o)(1)(H) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. 5 The EPA has concluded that the 40BSAF-GREET 2024 model addresses the issues it previously identified that made the R&D GREET model insufficient for calculating lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions for purposes of § 211(o)(1)(H) of the CAA.6 The 40BSAF-GREET 2024 model is a “similar methodology” to the CORSIA methodology as both evaluate the full fuel lifecycle, including all stages of fuel and feedstock production through to the end use of the 5 Letter from Carla Frisch, Acting Executive Director, Principal Deputy Director, Department of Energy Office of Policy, and Jeffrey M. Section 40B(f)(2)(A) requires a producer or importer of SAF to provide certification (in the form and manner prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury or her delegate (Secretary)) from an unrelated party demonstrating compliance with (i) any general requirements, supply chain traceability requirements, and information transmission requirements established under CORSIA as described in § 40B(e)(1), or (ii) in the case of any similar methodology established under § 40B(e)(2), requirements similar to the sustainability requirements described in § 40B(f)(2)(A)(i). Under § 40B(d)(1), the term sustainable aviation fuel === PAGE 4 === 4 means the portion of liquid fuel that is not kerosene that (i) either (A) meets the specifications of “ASTM D7566” (as defined in section 3.01(1)(a) of this notice to mean the ASTM D7566 Annexes), or (B) meets the specifications of ASTM D1655 Annex A1 (as defined in section 3.01(1)(b) of this notice); and (ii) satisfies the requirements of section 3.01(2) through (4) of this notice regarding sustainability. 7 (44) “Drayage Trucks” means vehicles as defined in California Code of Regulations, title 13, section 2027(c). (45) “E100,” also known as “Denatured Fuel Ethanol,” means nominally anhydrous ethyl alcohol. (46) “Electrical Distribution Utility” means an entity that owns or operates an electrical distribution system, including: (A ) a public utility as defined in the Public Utilities Code section 216 (referred to as an Investor Owned Utility, or IOU); Economic Benefits · $128 billion in revenue estimated accruing to California businesses from credit generation/sales. · Job growth in the electricity and biofuel sectors as demand for these fuels grows. · Increases the diversity and competitiveness of transportation fueling options for California consumers, transitioning supply from just ten fossil fuel refiners to hundreds of individual biofuel, electricity, and hydrogen producers. Quarterly fuel transactions verification related to LUT pathways using specified source feedstocks When a fuel pathway does not require third-party validation or verification, e.g., Lookup Table pathways including hydrogen (gaseous and liquefied) from central SMR of biomethane, specified source feedstocks must be included in the scope of verification of the Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports. Brown grease must be reported under an applicable used cooking oil (UCO) pathway, i.e., reported as “unprocessed UCO“ only if evidence is provided to the verifier or CARB to confirm that it has not been processed prior to receipt by the fuel production facility. (25) “Business Partner” refers to the counterparty in a specific transaction involving the fuel reporting entity. Section 6 of Notice 2024-6 also announced that subject to any further guidance from the Treasury Department and the IRS, it is anticipated that after the 40BSAF-GREET 2024 model is released, taxpayers will be able to use it to calculate the emissions reduction percentage for SAF sold or used after December 31, 2022, and prior to January 1, 2025. A certificate is required under section 6.04(2) of Notice 2023-6 in order to make a claim 1 Unless otherwise specified, all references to “section” or “§” are references to sections of the Internal Revenue Code. === PAGE 2 === 2 with respect to a SAF qualified mixture under § 34(a)(3), 40B, 6426(k), or 6427(e)(1). In contrast, under ASTM D1655 Annex A1, a person produces a qualified mixture by co-processing an appropriate feedstock with a petroleum feedstock during the production of kerosene that results in a qualified mixture, although no separate step of “mixing” a sustainable aviation fuel with kerosene occurs. The objective is to send clear, long-term market signals to support investment in low-carbon fuel production and technologies that are needed to achieve deep emissions reductions in the transportation sector while supporting the broader portfolio of zero-emission vehicle regulations and climate statutes. The purpose of this regulation is to implement a low carbon fuel standard, which will reduce the full fuel-cycle, carbon intensity of the transportation fuel pool used in California, pursuant to the California Global Warming Solutions Act of 2006 (Health & Safety Code [H&S], section 38500 et seq.). A blendstock that is used directly as a transportation fuel in a vehicle is considered a finished fuel. (24) “Brown Grease” means an emulsion of fat, oil, grease, solids, and water separated from wastewater in a grease interceptor (grease trap) and collected for use as a fuel feedstock. In general, the applicable supplementary amount increases the $1.25 base credit by $0.01 for each percentage point by which the “lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage” (as defined in section 3.01(4) of this notice) of the sustainable aviation fuel exceeds 50 percent. The term ASTM D1655 Annex A1 means the Fischer Tropsch provisions of ASTM D1655 Annex A1 that are contained in section A1.2.2.2, which provides a pathway for producing a liquid fuel by co-processing up to five percent of FT hydrocarbons with petroleum to make a qualified mixture. The methodology employed by the RFS program, consistent with that definition, is similar to the CORSIA methodology as both are methodologies that evaluate the “full fuel lifecycle, including all states of fuel and feedstock production” through to the end use of the finished fuel. This notice refers to a liquid fuel that meets the specifications of ASTM D1655 Annex A1, in which the FT hydrocarbons were derived from biomass that satisfies the requirements of section 3.01(2) through (4) of this notice as a SAF co-processed qualified mixture. To qualify as sustainable aviation fuel, the liquid fuel must not be derived from co-processing an “applicable material” (or materials derived from an applicable material) with a feedstock that is not biomass (within the meaning of § 45K(c)(3) of the Code). Treasury and the IRS, in consultation with the Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administration, understand that no jet fuel is currently produced in the United States under ASTM D1655 Annex A1 that would qualify for the SAF credit. Section 5 of this notice also provides guidance regarding claims for SAF credits that rely on the 40BSAF- GREET 2024 model and the USDA CSA Pilot Program to calculate the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage. .02 Applicable law . In general, the applicable supplementary amount increases the $1.25 base credit by $0.01 for each percentage point by which the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage of the SAF exceeds 50 percent, for a maximum increase of $0.50. See section 3 of this notice for the requirements of sustainable aviation fuel and qualified mixtures; see section 4 of this notice for calculating the applicable supplementary amount and lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage. A liquid fuel that meets the specifications of one of the ASTM D7566 Annexes or meets the specifications of ASTM D1655 Annex A1, but does not meet the requirements of section 3.01(2) through (4) of this notice is ineligible for the SAF credit. Each blendstock corresponds to a fuel pathway in the California-modified Greenhouse Gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Transportation version 3.0 (CA-GREET3.0) model, (August 13, 2018), which is incorporated herein by reference. Department of Energy, Guidelines to Determine Life Cycle Greenhouse Gas Emissions of Sustainable Aviation Fuel Production Pathways using 40BSAF-GREET 2024 (40BSAF-GREET 2024 User Manual), available at https://www.energy.gov/media/322899. In general, the applicable supplementary amount increases the $1.25 base credit by $0.01 for each percentage point by which the emissions reduction percentage of the SAF exceeds 50 percent, for a maximum increase of $0.50. Section 40B(f)(2)(B) requires SAF producers or importers to provide such other information with === PAGE 4 === 4 respect to such fuel as the Secretary may require for purposes of carrying out § 40B. .02 Notice 2023-6. Section 40B(d)(1)(A) defines sustainable aviation fuel by reference to two American Society for Testing and Materials (ASTM) specifications: ASTM D7566 and certain Fischer Tropsch provisions of ASTM D1655 Annex A1. === PAGE 1 === 2023 LCFS Compliance Information and Credit Clearance Market Information LCFS Compliance Reporting for 2023 The Low Carbon Fuel Standard (LCFS) achieved 100 percent compliance for the 2023 data year. The USDA CSA Pilot Program establishes climate smart agriculture (CSA) practices for cultivating domestic corn (CSA corn) and domestic soybeans (CSA soybean) (collectively, CSA crops) for use as SAF feedstocks. FT hydrocarbons, which are derived from biomass that satisfies the requirements of section 3.01(2) through (4) of this notice, are referred to as SAF FT hydrocarbons. (1) ASTM International specifications. To qualify as sustainable aviation fuel, the liquid fuel must have been certified in accordance with § 40B(e) as having a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage of at least 50 percent.