5376—117 7545(o)(1)(H)), as in effect on the date of enactment of this section. ‘‘(f) R EGISTRATION OF SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL PRO- DUCERS.—No credit shall be allowed under this section with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel unless the producer or importer of such fuel— ‘‘(1) is registered with the Secretary under section 4101, and ‘‘(2) provides— ‘‘(A) certification (in such form and manner as the Secretary shall prescribe) from an unrelated party dem- onstrating compliance with— ‘‘(i) any general requirements, supply chain traceability requirements, and information trans- mission requirements established under the Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation described in paragraph (1) of subsection (e), or ‘‘(ii) in the case of any methodology established under paragraph (2) of such subsection, requirements similar to the requirements described in clause (i), and ‘‘(B) such other information with respect to such fuel as the Secretary may require for purposes of carrying out this section. ‘‘(g) C OORDINATION WITH CREDIT AGAINST EXCISE TAX.—The amount of the credit determined under this section with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel shall, under rules prescribed by the Secretary, be properly reduced to take into account any benefit provided with respect to such sustainable aviation fuel solely by reason of the application of section 6426 or 6427(e). ‘‘(h) T ERMINATION.—This section shall not apply to any sale or use after December 31, 2024.’’. (b) CREDIT MADE PART OF GENERAL BUSINESS CREDIT.— Section 38(b), as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by striking ‘‘plus’’ at the end of paragraph (33), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (34) and inserting ‘‘, plus’’, and by inserting after paragraph (34) the following new paragraph: ‘‘(35) the sustainable aviation fuel credit determined under section 40B.’’. (c) C OORDINATION WITH BIODIESEL INCENTIVES.— (1) IN GENERAL.—Section 40A(d)(1) is amended by inserting ‘‘or 40B’’ after ‘‘determined under section 40’’. (2) C ONFORMING AMENDMENT .—Section 40A(f) is amended by striking paragraph (4). (d) S USTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL ADDED TO CREDIT FOR ALCOHOL FUEL, B IODIESEL, AND ALTERNATIVE FUEL MIXTURES.— (1) I N GENERAL .—Section 6426 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: ‘‘(k) S USTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL CREDIT.— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of this section, the sustain- able aviation fuel credit for the taxable year is, with respect to any sale or use of a qualified mixture, an amount equal to the product of— ‘‘(A) the number of gallons of sustainable aviation fuel in such mixture, multiplied by ‘‘(B) the sum of— === PAGE 118 === H. 5376—157 respect to such component shall be equal to the product of— ‘‘(i) the amount determined under paragraph (1) with respect to such component, as determined without regard to this paragraph, multiplied by ‘‘(ii) the phase out percentage under subparagraph (B). ‘‘(B) P HASE OUT PERCENTAGE .—The phase out percent- age under this subparagraph is equal to— ‘‘(i) in the case of an eligible component sold during calendar year 2030, 75 percent, ‘‘(ii) in the case of an eligible component sold during calendar year 2031, 50 percent, ‘‘(iii) in the case of an eligible component sold during calendar year 2032, 25 percent, ‘‘(iv) in the case of an eligible component sold after December 31, 2032, 0 percent. ‘‘(C) E XCEPTION.—For purposes of determining the amount under this subsection with respect to any applicable critical mineral, this paragraph shall not apply. ‘‘(4) L IMITATION ON CAPACITY OF BATTERY CELLS AND BAT - TERY MODULES.— ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of subparagraph (K)(ii) or (L)(ii) of paragraph (1), the capacity determined under either subparagraph with respect to a battery cell or bat- tery module shall not exceed a capacity-to-power ratio of 100:1. ‘‘(B) C APACITY-TO-POWER RATIO .—For purposes of this paragraph, the term ‘capacity-to-power ratio’ means, with respect to a battery cell or battery module, the ratio of the capacity of such cell or module to the maximum dis- charge amount of such cell or module. ‘‘(c) D EFINITIONS.—For purposes of this section— ‘‘(1) ELIGIBLE COMPONENT.— ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL .—The term ‘eligible component’ means— ‘‘(i) any solar energy component, ‘‘(ii) any wind energy component, ‘‘(iii) any inverter described in subparagraphs (B) through (G) of paragraph (2), ‘‘(iv) any qualifying battery component, and ‘‘(v) any applicable critical mineral. ‘‘(B) A PPLICATION WITH OTHER CREDITS .—The term ‘eligible component’ shall not include any property which is produced at a facility if the basis of any property which is part of such facility is taken into account for purposes of the credit allowed under section 48C after the date of the enactment of this section. ‘‘(2) I NVERTERS.— ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL .—The term ‘inverter’ means an end product which is suitable to convert direct current elec- tricity from 1 or more solar modules or certified distributed wind energy systems into alternating current electricity. ‘‘(B) C ENTRAL INVERTER .—The term ‘central inverter’ means an inverter which is suitable for large utility-scale systems and has a capacity which is greater than 1,000 === PAGE 158 === H. A claimant who qualifies for the SAF credit may either: (1) claim an excise tax credit under § 6426(k), in which case the claimant first claims the SAF credit against its § 4081 excise tax liability for a particular quarter and, to the extent that the credit exceeds the claimant’s § 4081 excise tax liability for that quarter, the claimant may claim either a payment under § 6427(e)(1) or a refundable income tax credit under § 34(a)(3); or (2) claim a nonrefundable § 38 general business income tax credit under § 38(b)(35) and include the amount of the § 40B credit in gross income under § 87. 5376—118 ‘‘(i) $1.25, plus ‘‘(ii) the applicable supplementary amount with respect to such sustainable aviation fuel. ‘‘(2) DEFINITIONS.—Any term used in this subsection which is also used in section 40B shall have the meaning given such term by section 40B. ‘‘(3) R EGISTRATION REQUIREMENT .—For purposes of this subsection, rules similar to the rules of section 40B(f) shall apply.’’. (2) C ONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— (A) Section 6426 is amended— (i) in subsection (a)(1), by striking ‘‘and (e)’’ and inserting ‘‘(e), and (k)’’, and (ii) in subsection (h), by striking ‘‘under section 40 or 40A’’ and inserting ‘‘under section 40, 40A, or 40B’’. (B) Section 6427(e) is amended— (i) in the heading, by striking ‘‘ OR ALTERNATIVE FUEL’’ and inserting, ‘‘ALTERNATIVE FUEL, OR SUSTAIN- ABLE AVIATION FUEL’’, (ii) in paragraph (1), by inserting ‘‘or the sustain- able aviation fuel mixture credit’’ after ‘‘alternative fuel mixture credit’’, and (iii) in paragraph (6)— (I) in subparagraph (C), by striking ‘‘and’’ at the end, (II) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘, and’’, and (III) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph: ‘‘(E) any qualified mixture of sustainable aviation fuel (as defined in section 6426(k)(3)) sold or used after December 31, 2024.’’. (C) Section 4101(a)(1) is amended by inserting ‘‘every person producing or importing sustainable aviation fuel (as defined in section 40B),’’ before ‘‘and every person pro- ducing second generation biofuel’’. (D) The table of sections for subpart D of subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 40A the following new item: ‘‘Sec. 5376—115 (2) F UELS NOT USED FOR TAXABLE PURPOSES .—Section 6427(e)(6)(B) is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 2022’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2024’’. (c) A LTERNATIVE FUEL CREDIT.—Section 6426(d)(5) is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 2021’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2024’’. (d) A LTERNATIVE FUEL MIXTURE CREDIT.—Section 6426(e)(3) is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 2021’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2024’’. (e) P AYMENTS FOR ALTERNATIVE FUELS.—Section 6427(e)(6)(C) is amended by striking ‘‘December 31, 2021’’ and inserting ‘‘December 31, 2024’’. (f) E FFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to fuel sold or used after December 31, 2021. (g) S PECIAL RULE.—In the case of any alternative fuel credit properly determined under section 6426(d) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 for the period beginning on January 1, 2022, and ending with the close of the last calendar quarter beginning before the date of the enactment of this Act, such credit shall be allowed, and any refund or payment attributable to such credit (including any payment under section 6427(e) of such Code) shall be made, only in such manner as the Secretary of the Treasury (or the Secretary’s delegate) shall provide. Advanced credits can only be sold via the Credit Clearance Market, and only retired for the purpose of meeting compliance obligation. (3 ) “Advanced Credit Window” is the six-year period during which advanced credits can be issued and after which base credit issuances will be adjusted to account for advanced credits. ( 4) “ Adverse Validation Statement” and “Adverse Verification Statement” means a statement rendered by a verification body attesting that: (1) the verification body cannot say, with reasonable assurance, that the reported value is free of a material misstatement, or (2) the data submitted contain one or more correctable errors, or (3) both, and thus is not in conformance with the requirement to fix such errors pursuant to section 95501(b)(6). PURPOSE This notice provides guidance on the new sustainable aviation fuel credits under §§ 40B and 6426(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (Code) (collectively referred to as a SAF credit or the SAF credit) and related credit and payment rules under §§ 34(a)(3), 38, 87, and 6427(e)(1). Section 40B(f)(2)(A) requires a producer or importer of SAF to provide certification (in the form and manner prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury or her 3 See sections 4.05 and 4.06 of Notice 2023-6 for instructions and an example of how to calculate the applicable supplementary amount for purposes of §§ 40B(b) and 6426(k). === PAGE 4 === 3 delegate (Secretary)) from an unrelated party demonstrating compliance with (i) any general requirements, supply chain traceability requirements, and information transmission requirements established under CORSIA as described in § 40B(e)(1), or (ii) in the case of any similar methodology established under § 40B(e)(2), requirements similar to the requirements described in § 40B(f)(2)(A)(i). Such credits are collectively referred to as a “SAF credit” or the “SAF credits.” This notice provides additional guidance with respect to the SAF credits under §§ 40B and 6426(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. 7545(o)(1)), as in effect on the date of enactment of this section. ‘‘(B) GREET MODEL.—The term ‘lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions’ shall only include emissions through the point of production (well-to-gate), as determined under the most recent Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Transportation model (commonly referred to as the ‘GREET model’) developed by Argonne National Laboratory, or a successor model (as determined by the Secretary). ‘‘(2) Q UALIFIED CLEAN HYDROGEN.— ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL .—The term ‘qualified clean hydrogen’ means hydrogen which is produced through a process that results in a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions rate of not greater than 4 kilograms of CO2e per kilogram of hydrogen. ‘‘(B) A DDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS .—Such term shall not include any hydrogen unless— ‘‘(i) such hydrogen is produced— ‘‘(I) in the United States (as defined in section 638(1)) or a possession of the United States (as defined in section 638(2)), ‘‘(II) in the ordinary course of a trade or busi- ness of the taxpayer, and ‘‘(III) for sale or use, and ‘‘(ii) the production and sale or use of such hydrogen is verified by an unrelated party. ‘‘(C) P ROVISIONAL EMISSIONS RATE .—In the case of any hydrogen for which a lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions rate has not been determined for purposes of this section, a taxpayer producing such hydrogen may file a petition with the Secretary for determination of the lifecycle green- house gas emissions rate with respect to such hydrogen. ‘‘(3) Q UALIFIED CLEAN HYDROGEN PRODUCTION FACILITY .— The term ‘qualified clean hydrogen production facility’ means a facility— ‘‘(A) owned by the taxpayer, ‘‘(B) which produces qualified clean hydrogen, and ‘‘(C) the construction of which begins before January 1, 2033. ‘‘(d) S PECIAL RULES.— ‘‘(1) TREATMENT OF FACILITIES OWNED BY MORE THAN 1 TAXPAYER.—Rules similar to the rules section 45(e)(3) shall apply for purposes of this section. ‘‘(2) COORDINATION WITH CREDIT FOR CARBON OXIDE SEQUES - TRATION.—No credit shall be allowed under this section with respect to any qualified clean hydrogen produced at a facility which includes carbon capture equipment for which a credit is allowed to any taxpayer under section 45Q for the taxable year or any prior taxable year. ‘‘(e) I NCREASED CREDIT AMOUNT FOR QUALIFIED CLEAN HYDROGEN PRODUCTION FACILITIES.— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL .—In the case of any qualified clean hydrogen production facility which satisfies the requirements === PAGE 121 === H. 5376—155 determined under subsection (b) with respect to each eligible component which is— ‘‘(A) produced by the taxpayer, and ‘‘(B) during the taxable year, sold by such taxpayer to an unrelated person. ‘‘(2) P RODUCTION AND SALE MUST BE IN TRADE OR BUSI - NESS.—Any eligible component produced and sold by the tax- payer shall be taken into account only if the production and sale described in paragraph (1) is in a trade or business of the taxpayer. ‘‘(3) U NRELATED PERSON.— ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL .—For purposes of this subsection, a taxpayer shall be treated as selling components to an unre- lated person if such component is sold to such person by a person related to the taxpayer. ‘‘(B) E LECTION.— ‘‘(i) IN GENERAL .—At the election of the taxpayer (in such form and manner as the Secretary may pre- scribe), a sale of components by such taxpayer to a related person shall be deemed to have been made to an unrelated person. ‘‘(ii) R EQUIREMENT.—As a condition of, and prior to, any election described in clause (i), the Secretary may require such information or registration as the Secretary deems necessary for purposes of preventing duplication, fraud, or any improper or excessive amount determined under paragraph (1). ‘‘(b) C REDIT AMOUNT.— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL .—Subject to paragraph (3), the amount determined under this subsection with respect to any eligible component, including any eligible component it incorporates, shall be equal to— ‘‘(A) in the case of a thin film photovoltaic cell or a crystalline photovoltaic cell, an amount equal to the product of— ‘‘(i) 4 cents, multiplied by ‘‘(ii) the capacity of such cell (expressed on a per direct current watt basis), ‘‘(B) in the case of a photovoltaic wafer, $12 per square meter, ‘‘(C) in the case of solar grade polysilicon, $3 per kilo- gram, ‘‘(D) in the case of a polymeric backsheet, 40 cents per square meter, ‘‘(E) in the case of a solar module, an amount equal to the product of— ‘‘(i) 7 cents, multiplied by ‘‘(ii) the capacity of such module (expressed on a per direct current watt basis), ‘‘(F) in the case of a wind energy component— ‘‘(i) if such component is a related offshore wind vessel, an amount equal to 10 percent of the sales price of such vessel, and ‘‘(ii) if such component is not described in clause (i), an amount equal to the product of— === PAGE 156 === H. 5376—164 ‘‘(xxii) Titanium. ‘‘(xxiii) Ytterbium. ‘‘(xxiv) Zinc. ‘‘(xxv) Zirconium. ‘‘(d) S PECIAL RULES.—In this section— ‘‘(1) RELATED PERSONS.—Persons shall be treated as related to each other if such persons would be treated as a single employer under the regulations prescribed under section 52(b). ‘‘(2) O NLY PRODUCTION IN THE UNITED STATES TAKEN INTO ACCOUNT.—Sales shall be taken into account under this section only with respect to eligible components the production of which is within— ‘‘(A) the United States (within the meaning of section 638(1)), or ‘‘(B) a possession of the United States (within the meaning of section 638(2)). ‘‘(3) P ASS-THRU IN THE CASE OF ESTATES AND TRUSTS .— Under regulations prescribed by the Secretary, rules similar to the rules of subsection (d) of section 52 shall apply. ‘‘(4) S ALE OF INTEGRATED COMPONENTS .—For purposes of this section, a person shall be treated as having sold an eligible component to an unrelated person if such component is integrated, incorporated, or assembled into another eligible component which is sold to an unrelated person.’’. (b) C ONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— (1) Section 38(b) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended— (A) in paragraph (36), by striking ‘‘plus’’ at the end, (B) in paragraph (37), by striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘, plus’’, and (C) by adding at the end the following new paragraph: ‘‘(38) the advanced manufacturing production credit deter- mined under section 45X(a).’’. (2) The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of sub- chapter A of chapter 1, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new item: ‘‘Sec. Section 40B(f)(2)(A) requires a producer or importer of SAF to provide certification (in the form and manner prescribed by the Secretary of the Treasury or her delegate (Secretary)) from an unrelated party demonstrating compliance with (i) any general requirements, supply chain traceability requirements, and information transmission requirements established under CORSIA as described in § 40B(e)(1), or (ii) in the case of any similar methodology established under § 40B(e)(2), requirements similar to the sustainability requirements described in § 40B(f)(2)(A)(i). Sustainable aviation fuel credit.’’. (e) A MOUNT OF CREDIT INCLUDED IN GROSS INCOME.—Section 87 is amended by striking ‘‘and’’ in paragraph (1), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (2) and inserting ‘‘, and’’, and by adding at the end the following new paragraph: ‘‘(3) the sustainable aviation fuel credit determined with respect to the taxpayer for the taxable year under section 40B(a).’’. (f) E FFECTIVE DATE.—The amendments made by this section shall apply to fuel sold or used after December 31, 2022. ADVANCED MANUFACTURING PRODUCTION CREDIT. ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.— ‘‘(1) ALLOWANCE OF CREDIT .—For purposes of section 38, the advanced manufacturing production credit for any taxable year is an amount equal to the sum of the credit amounts === PAGE 155 === H. PURPOSE This notice provides additional guidance and safe harbors regarding the sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) credits under §§ 40B and 6426(k) of the Internal Revenue Code (collectively, SAF credit or SAF credits). Notice 2023-6 provides guidance on the SAF credits and related credit and payment rules under §§ 34(a)(3), 38, 87, 6426(k), and 6427(e)(1), and procedures for claiming the SAF credit. The scope of verification services is limited to the following transaction types: • For liquid fuels: Production in California, Production for Import, Import, Export, Gain of Inventory, Loss of Inventory, and Not Used for Transportation • For non-liquid fuels: NGV Fueling, Propane Fueling, FCV Fueling for hydrogen produced from book-and-claim biomethane D eferred verification • Fuel pathway holders producing alternative fuels may defer annual verification of their Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports for each production facility up to two years if the quantity of fuel produced at the production facility and reported by any entity does not result in 6,000 or more credits and 6,000 or more deficits generated in the LRT during the prior calendar year pursuant to section 95500(c)(2)(B). • Fuel reporting entities only reporting alternative fuel quantities using Lookup table pathways may defer annual verification of their Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports up to two years if they do not generate 6,000 or more credits and 6,000 or more deficits during the prior calendar year. • Any fuel quantity reported under a pathway with biomethane supplied using book-and-claim accounting pursuant to section 95488.8(i)(2) is not eligible for deferred verification pursuant to section 95500(c)(2)(B). CREDIT FOR PRODUCTION OF CLEAN HYDROGEN. ‘‘(a) AMOUNT OF CREDIT.—For purposes of section 38, the clean hydrogen production credit for any taxable year is an amount equal to the product of— ‘‘(1) the kilograms of qualified clean hydrogen produced by the taxpayer during such taxable year at a qualified clean hydrogen production facility during the 10-year period begin- ning on the date such facility was originally placed in service, multiplied by ‘‘(2) the applicable amount (as determined under subsection (b)) with respect to such hydrogen. ‘‘(b) A PPLICABLE AMOUNT.— ‘‘(1) IN GENERAL .—For purposes of subsection (a)(2), the applicable amount shall be an amount equal to the applicable percentage of $0.60. Differences that, in the professional judgment of the verification team, are the result of differing but reasonable methods of truncation or rounding or averaging, where a specific procedure is not prescribed by this subarticle, are not considered errors. (35) “ Credit Generator” means a fuel reporting entity or a project operator that generates LCFS credit in the LCFS program. (36) “ Credits” and “Deficits” mean the units of measure used for determining a regulated entity’s compliance with the average carbon intensity requirements in section 95484. Account administrators with “signatory authority” may submit Quarterly and Annual Reports; initiate and view all credit transfers and credit transfer activity; access the Credit Balance ledger for the organization; and select/authorize broker(s) to represent them. === PAGE 6 === Legal Disclaimer: This is an unofficial electronic version of the Low Carbon Fuel Standard Regulation. Liquid fuel produced under section A1.2.2.1 does not qualify for the SAF credit because section A1.2.2.1 defines a pathway for producing a liquid fuel from co- processing an applicable material (or materials derived from an applicable material) with a feedstock that is not biomass (for example, petroleum), which § 40B(d)(1)(B) excludes from the SAF credit. The Credit Clearance Market provision increases market certainty regarding maximum compliance costs, strengthens incentives to invest in and produce low-carbon fuels, and reduces the probability of credit shortfalls and price spikes. 2 (2) “Advanced Credits” means LCFS base electricity credits that are issued prior to the quarter in which credit-generating transactions have occurred. Notice 2023-6 provides guidance on the SAF credits and related credit and payment rules under §§ 34(a)(3), 38, 87, and 6427(e)(1). 5376—122 ‘‘(3) CREDIT REDUCED FOR TAX -EXEMPT BONDS .—Rules similar to the rule under section 45(b)(3) shall apply for pur- poses of this section.’’. (3) M ODIFICATION OF EXISTING FACILITIES .—Section 45V(d), as added and amended by the preceding provisions of this section, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: ‘‘(4) M ODIFICATION OF EXISTING FACILITIES .—For purposes of subsection (a)(1), in the case of any facility which— ‘‘(A) was originally placed in service before January 1, 2023, and, prior to the modification described in subpara- graph (B), did not produce qualified clean hydrogen, and ‘‘(B) after the date such facility was originally placed in service— ‘‘(i) is modified to produce qualified clean hydrogen, and ‘‘(ii) amounts paid or incurred with respect to such modification are properly chargeable to capital account of the taxpayer, such facility shall be deemed to have been originally placed in service as of the date that the property required to complete the modification described in subparagraph (B) is placed in service.’’. (4) C ONFORMING AMENDMENTS.— (A) Section 38(b), as amended by the preceding provi- sions of this Act, is amended— (i) in paragraph (34), by striking ‘‘plus’’ at the end, (ii) in paragraph (35), by striking the period at the end and inserting ‘‘, plus’’, and (iii) by adding at the end the following new para- graph: ‘‘(36) the clean hydrogen production credit determined under section 45V(a).’’. (B) The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new item: ‘‘Sec. Summary of 2023 LCFS Compliance Reporting Total number of entities actively reporting in 2023 under LCFS program 531 Total number of entities generating deficits during 2023 64 Total number of deficit generating entities that met their 2023 compliance obligation 64 As reported in the Q4 2023 Quarterly Data Summary, cumulatively through 2023, the LCFS program has generated 155.58 million credits and 132.03 million deficits, for a net of about 23.55 million credits banked in the program. The Treasury Department and the IRS developed the guidance set forth in sections 3 through 5 of this notice, in consultation with the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and other agencies, to provide safe harbors for using the EPA’s Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) program to calculate the emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2) and RFS guidance to certify related sustainability requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(ii), and to address other models. SUSTAINABLE AVIATION FUEL CREDIT. ‘‘(a) IN GENERAL.—For purposes of section 38, the sustainable aviation fuel credit determined under this section for the taxable year is, with respect to any sale or use of a qualified mixture which occurs during such taxable year, an amount equal to the product of— ‘‘(1) the number of gallons of sustainable aviation fuel in such mixture, multiplied by ‘‘(2) the sum of— ‘‘(A) $1.25, plus === PAGE 116 === H. All references to R&D GREET in this notice are referring to the same model, including any subsequent updates, as references to ANL-GREET in Notice 2024-6. === PAGE 3 === 2 § 40B and amended §§ 38(b), 40A, 87, 4101(a), 6426, and 6427(e)(1), to establish the SAF credits, effective for certain fuel mixtures containing SAF sold or used after December 31, 2022, and before January 1, 2025. 1818 (August 16, 2022), commonly known as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, added § 40B and amended §§ 38(b), 40A, 87, 4101(a), 6426, and 6427(e)(1), enacting a sustainable aviation fuel credit, effective for certain fuel mixtures containing sustainable aviation fuel sold or used after === PAGE 2 === 2 December 31, 2022, and prior to January 1, 2025. To date, no GREET-based model has been identified as satisfying the applicable requirements.3 Finally , section 6 of this notice announces that the Department of Energy (DOE) is collaborating with other federal agencies to develop a modified version of the GREET model that would satisfy the requirements of § 40B(e)(2) (§ 40B(e)(2) GREET model). Section 4 of this notice also provides a safe harbor for certifying the related requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(ii) for purposes of the USDA CSA Pilot Program by using an unrelated party certifier that meets the USDA CSA Pilot Program requirements for Eligible Unrelated Party Certification Bodies (CSA certifier). Section 3 of Notice 2024-6 provides safe harbors for using the EPA’s Renewable Fuel Standard (RFS) program to calculate the emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2), and for using RFS guidance to certify the corresponding unrelated party certification requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(ii). Sections 4.04 and 5.01(4) of Notice 2023-6 include CORSIA-based safe harbors for determining the emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(1) and for providing an unrelated party certification for demonstrating compliance with the requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(i). .04 Notice 2024-6. However, Notice 2023-6 does not provide guidance regarding the calculation of the emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2) or the associated unrelated party certification of sustainability requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(ii). .03 Sections 3 through 6 of this notice. 1818 (August 16, 2022), commonly known as the Inflation Reduction Act of 2022, added § 40B and amended §§ 38(b), 40A, 87, 4101(a), 6426, and 6427(e)(1), to establish the SAF credits, effective for certain fuel mixtures containing SAF sold or used after December 31, 2022. Sections 4.04 and 5.01(4) of Notice 2023-6 in clude CORSIA-based safe harbors for determining the emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(1) and for providing an unrelated party certification of sustainability requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(i). Finally, this notice requests comments from the public related to the SAF credit to assist the Department of the Treasury (Treasury Department) and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) in developing additional guidance on the SAF credit in the future. Section 3 of this notice provides safe harbors for calculating the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2) and for certifying the related requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A) (sustainability requirements). Credit Clearance Market The LCFS includes a provision for holding a Credit Clearance Market (CCM) that provides additional compliance flexibility to regulated entities who have not met their previous year-end obligation. Section 40B(f)(2)(B) requires SAF producers or importers to provide such other information with === PAGE 4 === 4 respect to such fuel as the Secretary may require for purposes of carrying out § 40B. .02 Notice 2023-6. Section 40B(f)(2)(B) requires SAF producers or importers to provide such other information with respect to such fuel as the Secretary may require for purposes of carrying out § 40B. .03 Notice 2023-6 . For a claimant to qualify for the SAF credit, §§ 40B(f)(1) and 6426(k)(3) require the producer or importer of the sustainable aviation fuel to be registered with the IRS under § 4101. Sections 40B and 6426(k) allow a SAF credit for the production of a qualified mixture which, broadly speaking, is a mixture of sustainable aviation fuel and kerosene. LIFECYCLE GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS REDUCTION PERCENTAGE UNDER § 40B(e)(2) AND CERTIFICATION OF SUSTAINABILITY REQUIREMENTS UNDER § 40B(f)(2)(A)(ii); 5376—156 ‘‘(I) the applicable amount with respect to such component (as determined under paragraph (2)(A)), multiplied by ‘‘(II) the total rated capacity (expressed on a per watt basis) of the completed wind turbine for which such component is designed, ‘‘(G) in the case of a torque tube, 87 cents per kilogram, ‘‘(H) in the case of a structural fastener, $2.28 per kilogram, ‘‘(I) in the case of an inverter, an amount equal to the product of— ‘‘(i) the applicable amount with respect to such inverter (as determined under paragraph (2)(B)), multi- plied by ‘‘(ii) the capacity of such inverter (expressed on a per alternating current watt basis), ‘‘(J) in the case of electrode active materials, an amount equal to 10 percent of the costs incurred by the taxpayer with respect to production of such materials, ‘‘(K) in the case of a battery cell, an amount equal to the product of— ‘‘(i) $35, multiplied by ‘‘(ii) subject to paragraph (4), the capacity of such battery cell (expressed on a kilowatt-hour basis), ‘‘(L) in the case of a battery module, an amount equal to the product of— ‘‘(i) $10 (or, in the case of a battery module which does not use battery cells, $45), multiplied by ‘‘(ii) subject to paragraph (4), the capacity of such battery module (expressed on a kilowatt-hour basis), and ‘‘(M) in the case of any applicable critical mineral, an amount equal to 10 percent of the costs incurred by the taxpayer with respect to production of such mineral. ‘‘(2) A PPLICABLE AMOUNTS.— ‘‘(A) WIND ENERGY COMPONENTS .—For purposes of paragraph (1)(F)(ii), the applicable amount with respect to any wind energy component shall be— ‘‘(i) in the case of a blade, 2 cents, ‘‘(ii) in the case of a nacelle, 5 cents, ‘‘(iii) in the case of a tower, 3 cents, and ‘‘(iv) in the case of an offshore wind foundation— ‘‘(I) which uses a fixed platform, 2 cents, or ‘‘(II) which uses a floating platform, 4 cents. ‘‘(B) I NVERTERS.—For purposes of paragraph (1)(I), the applicable amount with respect to any inverter shall be— ‘‘(i) in the case of a central inverter, 0.25 cents, ‘‘(ii) in the case of a utility inverter, 1.5 cents, ‘‘(iii) in the case of a commercial inverter, 2 cents, ‘‘(iv) in the case of a residential inverter, 6.5 cents, and ‘‘(v) in the case of a microinverter or a distributed wind inverter, 11 cents. ‘‘(3) P HASE OUT.— ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL .—Subject to subparagraph (C), in the case of any eligible component sold after December 31, 2029, the amount determined under this subsection with === PAGE 157 === H. 5376—121 of paragraph (2), the amount of the credit determined under subsection (a) with respect to qualified clean hydrogen described in subsection (b)(2) shall be equal to such amount (determined without regard to this sentence) multiplied by 5. ‘‘(2) R EQUIREMENTS.—A facility meets the requirements of this paragraph if it is one of the following: ‘‘(A) A facility— ‘‘(i) the construction of which begins prior to the date that is 60 days after the Secretary publishes guidance with respect to the requirements of para- graphs (3)(A) and (4), and ‘‘(ii) which meets the requirements of paragraph (3)(A) with respect to alteration or repair of such facility which occurs after such date. ‘‘(B) A facility which satisfies the requirements of para- graphs (3)(A) and (4). ‘‘(3) P REVAILING WAGE REQUIREMENTS.— ‘‘(A) IN GENERAL .—The requirements described in this subparagraph with respect to any qualified clean hydrogen production facility are that the taxpayer shall ensure that any laborers and mechanics employed by the taxpayer or any contractor or subcontractor in— ‘‘(i) the construction of such facility, and ‘‘(ii) with respect to any taxable year, for any por- tion of such taxable year which is within the period described in subsection (a)(2), the alteration or repair of such facility, shall be paid wages at rates not less than the prevailing rates for construction, alteration, or repair of a similar character in the locality in which such facility is located as most recently determined by the Secretary of Labor, in accordance with subchapter IV of chapter 31 of title 40, United States Code. Credits and deficits are denominated in units of metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e), and are calculated pursuant to sections 95486.1(a), (c), 95486.2(a)(5) and (b)(5), 95489 and 95490. (37) “Day” means a calendar day unless otherwise specified as a business day. (38) “Deficit Generator” means a fuel reporting entity who generates deficits in the LCFS program. (39) “Diesel Fuel” (also called conventional diesel fuel) has the same meaning as specified in California Code of Regulations, title 13, section 2281(b). (40) “ Direct Current Fast Charging” means charging an electric vehicle at 50 kW and higher using direct current. (41) “Disadvantaged Communities” means communities that are defined by California Health and Safety Code section 39711(a) that are identified based on geographic, socioeconomic, public health, and environmental hazard criteria, and may include, but are not limited to, either of the following: (1) areas disproportionately affected by environmental pollution and other hazards that can lead to negative public health effects, exposure, or environmental degradation or (2) areas with concentrations of people that are of low-income, high unemployment, low levels of homeownership, high rent burden, sensitive populations, or low levels of educational attainment. (42) “Distiller’s Corn Oil” has the same meaning as “Technical Corn Oil.” (43) “Distiller’s Sorghum Oil” has the same meaning as “Technical Sorghum Oil.” === PAGE 11 === Legal Disclaimer: This is an unofficial electronic version of the Low Carbon Fuel Standard Regulation. For purposes of determining an increased credit amount under paragraph (1) for a taxable year, the requirement under clause (ii) of this subparagraph is applied to such taxable year in which the alteration or repair of qualified facility occurs. ‘‘(B) C ORRECTION AND PENALTY RELATED TO FAILURE TO SATISFY WAGE REQUIREMENTS .—Rules similar to the rules of section 45(b)(7)(B) shall apply. ‘‘(4) A PPRENTICESHIP REQUIREMENTS .—Rules similar to the rules of section 45(b)(8) shall apply. ‘‘(5) REGULATIONS AND GUIDANCE .—The Secretary shall issue such regulations or other guidance as the Secretary deter- mines necessary to carry out the purposes of this subsection, including regulations or other guidance which provides for requirements for recordkeeping or information reporting for purposes of administering the requirements of this subsection. ‘‘(f) R EGULATIONS.—Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall issue regulations or other guidance to carry out the purposes of this section, including regulations or other guidance for determining lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions.’’. (2) C REDIT REDUCED FOR TAX -EXEMPT BONDS .—Section 45V(d), as added by this section, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: === PAGE 122 === H. Section 40B(e) defines the term lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage to mean, with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel, the percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions achieved by such fuel as compared with petroleum-based jet fuel, as defined in accordance with (i) the most recent Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) that has been adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) with the agreement of the United States and is set out in Annex 16 - Environmental Protection: Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) (2018), https://elibrary.icao.int/home/product-details/229739, and related documents, or (2) any similar methodology that satisfies the criteria under § 211(o)(1)(H) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. Credit for production of clean hydrogen.’’. (5) EFFECTIVE DATES.— (A) I N GENERAL .—The amendments made by para- graphs (1) and (4) of this subsection shall apply to hydrogen produced after December 31, 2022. (B) C REDIT REDUCED FOR TAX -EXEMPT BONDS .—The amendment made by paragraph (2) shall apply to facilities the construction of which begins after the date of enactment of this Act. (C) M ODIFICATION OF EXISTING FACILITIES .—The amendment made by paragraph (3) shall apply to modifica- tions made after December 31, 2022. (b) C REDIT FOR ELECTRICITY PRODUCED FROM RENEWABLE RESOURCES ALLOWED IF ELECTRICITY IS USED TO PRODUCE CLEAN HYDROGEN.— (1) I N GENERAL .—Section 45(e), as amended by the pre- ceding provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: 95501(b)(4)(E) Exempt from verification Pursuant to section 95500(c)(2)(C), entities reporting fuel transactions as Export, Gain of Inventory, Loss of Inventory, and Not Used for Transportation, which do not result in 6,000 or more credits and 6,000 or more deficits generated in the calendar year are exempt from verification of the Quarterly Fuel Transactions Reports if all the following conditions are met: === PAGE 10 === 04/05/2024 2023 Annual Report Guidance 10 | Page • The entity did not report any liquid fuel using the transaction types: Production in California, Production for Import, or Import; and • The entity did not report any transactions for NGV Fueling or Propane Fueling. Section 40B(e) defines the term “lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage” (emissions reduction percentage) to mean, with respect to any sustainable aviation fuel, the percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions achieved by such fuel, as compared with petroleum-based jet fuel, as defined in accordance with (1) the most recent Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) that has been adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) with the agreement of the United States or (2) any similar methodology that satisfies the criteria under § 211(o)(1)(H) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. Section 40B(e) defines the term “lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage” (emissions reduction percentage) to mean, with respect to any SAF, the percentage reduction in lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions achieved by such fuel, as compared with petroleum-based jet fuel, as defined in accordance with (1) the most recent Carbon Offsetting and Reduction Scheme for International Aviation (CORSIA) that has been adopted by the International Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) with the agreement of the United States or (2) any similar methodology that satisfies the criteria under § 211(o)(1)(H) of the Clean Air Act (42 U.S.C. Specifically, a SAF synthetic blending component that has generated biomass- based diesel (D-code 4) or advanced biofuel (D-code 5) renewable identification numbers (RINs) under the RFS program that have been validated under a quality 4 Although § 40B(e) requires use of a petroleum-based jet fuel baseline, the Treasury Department and the IRS conclude that it is reasonable to use the RFS program’s diesel fuel baseline for purposes of the safe harbor in section 3.01(2) of this notice because the differences are small compared to the inherent lack of precision with respect to lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions calculations. Entities that would like to request eligibility confirmation may email LCFSVerify@arb.ca.gov. a) Q FTR Reporting Requirement: Quarterly Fuel Transactions Report(s) are submitted through the LRT to CARB according to regulatory deadlines and consistent with previous practice; see the Air Resources Board - LCFS User Guide Version 1.2 (ca.gov) (LRT User Guide) for more detail. b) Annual Verification Report Submission Methods: The fuel reporting entities must use the LRT Verification tab to submit the report directly to CARB and the contracted VB. Under § 40B(d)(1), the term sustainable aviation fuel === PAGE 4 === 4 means the portion of liquid fuel that is not kerosene that (i) either (A) meets the specifications of “ASTM D7566” (as defined in section 3.01(1)(a) of this notice to mean the ASTM D7566 Annexes), or (B) meets the specifications of ASTM D1655 Annex A1 (as defined in section 3.01(1)(b) of this notice); and (ii) satisfies the requirements of section 3.01(2) through (4) of this notice regarding sustainability. Section 3 of this notice provides a safe harbor for calculating the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2) using the modified version of the Argonne National Laboratory's Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Technologies (R&D GREET) 2 model that satisfies the requirements 1 Unless otherwise specified, all references to “section” or “§” are references to sections of the Internal Revenue Code. Economic Benefits · $128 billion in revenue estimated accruing to California businesses from credit generation/sales. · Job growth in the electricity and biofuel sectors as demand for these fuels grows. · Increases the diversity and competitiveness of transportation fueling options for California consumers, transitioning supply from just ten fossil fuel refiners to hundreds of individual biofuel, electricity, and hydrogen producers. Section 5 of this notice explains that the existing Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Transportation (GREET) model of the Argonne National Laboratory (ANL-GREET model) 2 is a methodology that does not satisfy the requirem ents to calculate the emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2). A certificate is required under section 6.04(2) of Notice 2023-6 in order to make a claim 1 Unless otherwise specified, all references to “section” or “§” are references to sections of the Internal Revenue Code. === PAGE 2 === 2 with respect to a SAF qualified mixture under § 34(a)(3), 40B, 6426(k), or 6427(e)(1). The SAF credit is equal to the product of— (1) the number of gallons of sustainable aviation fuel in a qualified mixture, multiplied by (2) the sum of— (A) $1.25, plus (B) the “applicable supplementary amount” (as calculated under section 4.05 of this notice) with respect to such sustainable aviation fuel. Section 3 of this notice also provides a safe harbor for certifying the related requirements under § 40B(f)(2)(A)(ii) for purposes of the 40BSAF-GREET 2024 model by using the California Air Resources Board’s (CARB) Low Carbon Fuel Standard program (LCFS) accredited verifiers (CARB LCFS verifiers). Section 4 of this notice provides a safe harbor for an additional reduction in calculating the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2) using the 40BSAF-GREET 2024 model in conjunction with the USDA Climate Smart Agriculture Pilot Program (USDA CSA Pilot Program). Section 5 of === PAGE 5 === 4 Notice 2024-6 informs the public that the existing R&D GREET4 model and any other existing versions of GREET (for example, CA-GREET, ICAO-GREET) are methodologies that do not satisfy the requirements to calculate the emissions reduction percentage under § 40B(e)(2). In general, the applicable supplementary amount increases the $1.25 base credit by $0.01 for each percentage point by which the “lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage” (as defined in section 3.01(4) of this notice) of the sustainable aviation fuel exceeds 50 percent. CLEAN HYDROGEN. (a) CREDIT FOR PRODUCTION OF CLEAN HYDROGEN.— (1) I N GENERAL .—Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new section: === PAGE 119 === H. DOE worked with the Treasury Department and other Federal agencies to develop the 40BSAF-GREET 2024 model, including specifications for and limitations on taxpayer inputs and background inputs to the model, to satisfy the statutory requirements of § 40B(e)(2); The SAF credit is equal to the product of (1) the number of gallons of SAF in a qualified mixture and (2) the sum of (A) $1.25 and (B) the “applicable 2 The “ANL-GREET model” refers to the following lifecycle analysis model: Wang, Michael, et al. (2022). Treasury and the IRS, in consultation with the Department of Transportation and the Federal Aviation Administration, understand that no jet fuel is currently produced in the United States under ASTM D1655 Annex A1 that would qualify for the SAF credit. Section 5 of this notice also provides guidance regarding claims for SAF credits that rely on the 40BSAF- GREET 2024 model and the USDA CSA Pilot Program to calculate the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage. .02 Applicable law . In general, the applicable supplementary amount increases the $1.25 base credit by $0.01 for each percentage point by which the lifecycle greenhouse gas emissions reduction percentage of the SAF exceeds 50 percent, for a maximum increase of $0.50. Section 40B(e)(2) provides that the emissions reduction percentage may be calculated in accordance with any methodology similar to the most recent CORSIA that satisfies the criteria under § 211(o)(1)(H) of the CAA (CAA § 211(o)(1)(H) criteria). A liquid fuel that meets the specifications of one of the ASTM D7566 Annexes or meets the specifications of ASTM D1655 Annex A1, but does not meet the requirements of section 3.01(2) through (4) of this notice is ineligible for the SAF credit. CLEAN HYDROGEN. (a) CREDIT FOR PRODUCTION OF CLEAN HYDROGEN.— (1) I N GENERAL .—Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new section: Argonne National Laboratory made this change on its website beginning in December 2023, to better distinguish between the different models and to draw a clear distinction between R&D GREET and the versions used for tax credit purposes. PURPOSE The Department of the Treasury (Treasury Department) and the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) provided initial guidance on December 19, 2022, regarding the sustainable aviation fuel (SAF) credits in Notice 2023-6, 2023-2 I.R.B. ADVANCED MANUFACTURING PRODUCTION CREDIT. (a) I N GENERAL.—Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1, as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following new section: ‘‘SEC. In general, the applicable supplementary amount increases the $1.25 base credit by $0.01 for each percentage point by which the emissions reduction percentage of the SAF exceeds 50 percent, for a maximum increase of $0.50.